After the ball is ready for play and before the snap begins, no false start shall be made by any A player. It is a false start if a shift or feigned charge simulates action at the snap; any act is clearly intended to cause B to encroach; or if any A player on his line between the snapper and the player on the end of his line, after having placed a hand(s) on or near the ground, moves his hand(s) or makes any quick movement. If a false start causes B to encroach, only the false start is penalized.
PENALTY


7
Dead ball foul, touchback (move side to side)


19
False Start / Illegal Formation
APPROVED RULINGS
AR 4.5.A 
A is on its line of scrimmage with A1 directly and immediately behind the snapper in a position to receive the ball. As the count is started but before the ball is snapped (a) A1 steps backward from the line of scrimmage and while so doing he fakes throwing a forward pass. B1 then charges across the neutral zone and contacts A2, (b) A1 quickly withdraws his hands from under the snapper and goes in motion. Reaction on the part of B2 causes him to charge across the neutral zone and contact A3 or (c) A1 lifts the heel of one foot as a signal to start A2 in motion. RULING: False start by A1 in both (a) and (b). These are acts interpreted to cause an opponent to encroach and, therefore, are infractions. It is the intent of the rules to prohibit such acts. Whether or not the action by A1 draws B into the neutral zone should not be the determining factor in ruling a false-start foul. The action by A1 in (c) is legal.
AR 4.5.B 
On third-and-10 from A's 40-yard line, all team A players are set. While quarterback A1 is calling signals, defensive back B1, starting from a position eight yards behind his line of scrimmage, runs toward the neutral zone. B1 stops directly in front of tackle A4 but does not enter the neutral zone. In response to B1's charge, A4 (a) does not move or (b) flinches. RULING: No foul in (a). In (b), A4 is guilty of a dead-ball foul for false start. If in the official's judgment the action by B1 was for the purpose of disconcerting or hindering A, it is an unsportsmanlike conduct foul. in which case, the official should sound the whistle before the snap.
AR 4.5.C 
On fourth-and-4 on A's 35-yard line, A comes to the line in a scrimmage formation. After calling a few signals, A1 says "shift". All 11 players then make a movement. Some players move to a new position for a scrimmage-kick formation, while four interior linemen remain in place and move from a hands-on-thighs position to an upright position and finally to a three-point stance. RULING: False start. Any act designed to cause B to encroach is a foul by A.


