No player or nonplayer shall fight. Fighting is any attempt by a player or nonplayer to strike or engage an opponent in a combative manner unrelated to football. Such acts include but are not limited to, attempts to strike an opponent(s) with the arm(s), hand(s), leg(s) or foot (feet), whether or not there is contact. 

PENALTY 



38
Personal Foul


47
Disqualification 
Disqualification from game
Automatic first down if foul is by B


8
First down 
USA Football strongly encouragesleagues to adopt additional penalties such as suspensions for players who are disqualified for fighting.

APPROVED RULINGS 

AR 7.12.A 
With the ball on B's two -yard line and between downs, a fight starts between A1 and B1. The officials do not know that player struck the first blow. RULING: Disqualify both A1 and B1 and signal personal fouls against each team but do not enforce any yardage penalty. In that situation, because it is impossible to enforce the dead-ball foul penalties in the order in which the fouls occurred, an arbitrary choice of one of them would lead to inequities due to the half-the-distance provision in penalty enforcement. 
AR 7.12.B 
It is A's ball, third down and one on A's 10-yard line. B1 tackles A1 with a hard legal tackle at the line of scrimmage. A1, feeling the tackle was unjustly harsh, jumps to his feet and (a) attacks B1, delivering blows with his fist or (b) swings at B1 but misses. In both cases, B1 then directs a profanity toward A1. RULING: A1 is guilty of fighting in (a) and (b). The penalties are administered in the order that they occurred. Consequently, A would be penalized half the distance to the goal (5-yard line). B would then be penalized 15 yards for unsportsmanlike conduct. A1 shall be disqualified for fighting whether or not his blows struck B1; B1 would remain in the game unless the officials determined his reaction was flagrant. It's A's ball First- and-10 on its own 20-yard line. 
AR 7.12.C 
During B1's tackling of runner A1, he delivers a blow toward the ball in an attempt to dislodge it but instead strikes A1 with his fist. RULING: B1 is charged with a personal foul and disqualified for striking. The penalty is 15 yards and an automatic first down. Because B1's contact was a football-related action, it is not considered to be fighting even though it is a personal foul and results in disqualification. 
AR 7.12.D 
A fight breaks out between several opposing players and (a) two substitutes from each team come onto the field, (b) one substitute of A enters and three enter from B's team box. RULING: In (a), both substitutes are disqualified and the penalties offset. In (b), the one 15-yard penalty on A will cancel one by B resulting in two 15-yard penalties on B. In both cases, penalties and disqualification also will be assessed to those who were fighting. 


