After the ball is ready for play, each player of A who participated in the previous down and each substitute for A must have been, momentarily, between the nine-yard marks before the snap.
Number of Players 
At the snap, at least seven A players must be on their line of scrimmage.
Players Next to the Snapper 
The players on each side of and next to the snapper may lock legs with the snapper, but any other A lineman must have each foot outside the closest foot of the player next to him at the snap. A's players may stand, crouch or kneel.
Players Not on Line at Snap 
Of the players of A who are not on their line at the snap only one may penetrate the vertical plane through the waistline of his nearest teammate who is on his line. He must have his hands in position to receive the ball if it is snapped between the snapper's legs but he is not required to receive the snap. Any other player(s) must be in legal position as a back.
Eligible Receivers 
All A players who, at the time of the snap, are on the ends of their scrimmage line or legally behind the line are eligible receivers.
Opposing Player Lineup 
B players may be anywhere on or behind the line.
PENALTY


19
False Start / Illegal Formation
APPROVED RULINGS
AR 4.3.A 
A players assume their pre-snap positions. A1 takes a position behind the line of scrimmage as a potential runner. A1 is standing and is turned so he is directly facing the quarterback. At the snap, A1's shoulder and elbow are breaking the plane through the waist of his nearest teammate who is on the line. RULING: Since A1 is not on the line and is not positioned as a back, it results in an illegal formation foul. To be a back, A1 cannot have any part of his body breaking the plane through the waist of his nearest teammate who is on the line.
AR 4.3.B 
Substitute A1, noticing his team has only 10 players on the field, comes onto the field just as the ball is about to be snapped. RULING: A1 must be on the field on A's side of the neutral zone, inside the nine-yard marks and not violate the shift or motion provisions. Furthermore, the act of his coming onto the field must not deceive the defensive team.
AR 4.3.C 
When A comes to the line of scrimmage, the linemen assume their final positions such that five linemen penetrate the vertical plane through the waistline of the snapper while the head of the sixth penetrates the plane drawn through the waistline of the nearest teammate who is on his line of scrimmage. RULING: It is an illegal formation that is a foul simultaneously with the snap. The offended team will be given the option of taking the result of the play or accepting the penalty and replaying the down.
AR 4.3.D 
Following the huddle, after A comes to its line of scrimmage, quarterback A1 is breaking the plane of the waistline of the snapper and slot back A2 has a part of his body breaking the plane of the waistline of his nearest teammate who is on the line of scrimmage. RULING: Illegal formation foul at the snap. While quarterback A1 may be breaking the plane of the waistline of the snapper or nearest teammate legally on the line of scrimmage, it is illegal for any other back to break the plane of the waistline of his nearest teammate who is on the line of scrimmage.
AR 4.3.E 
At the snap, A1 is in a position that is neither on the line of scrimmage nor clearly in the backfield. A1 is not on the line because neither his head nor his foot is breaking the plane through the waist of the snapper and he is not a back because he is penetrating the plane through the waist of his nearest teammate, end A2, who is on the line. The position of A1 is inside that of end A2, who is clearly on the line of scrimmage. When the ball is snapped, both A1 and A2 go downfield and A1 catches a pass. RULING: The position of A1 is illegal when the ball is snapped. A1 is an ineligible receiver because he was not clearly a back. His advance beyond the neutral zone is illegal and when he touches the pass, it is illegal touching. That is a multiple foul and B has a choice of that penalty to accept.
AR 4.3.F 
In the last few seconds of a half, A1 completes a pass to A2 at B's 20-yard line. The ball is properly spotted and the referee marks it ready for play and signals the clock to start. In the rush and confusion to stop the clock, A's snapper and quarterback A1 are the only A players in legal position when the ball is snapped and legally "spiked" by A1. RULING: A foul for illegal formation occurs at the snap. The "spike" is legal. Since the spike is legal, the only applicable foul is for illegal formation.


