A down is action that starts with a legal snap (beginning a scrimmage down) or when the ball is kicked on a free kick (beginning a free-kick down). A down ends when the ball next becomes dead. While the ball is live, an interval called a down is in progress and the team in possession attempts to advance the ball by carrying, kicking or passing it. The team in possession has a series of four downs numbered 1, 2, 3 and 4 to advance the ball to the line to gain.
Force 
Force is the result of energy exerted by a player that provides movement of the ball. The term force is used only in connection with the goal line and in only one direction, i.e., from the field of play into the end zone.
Forward progress 
Forward progress is the end of advancement of the ball in a runner's possession or the forward-most point of the ball when it is fumbled out of bounds toward the opponent's goal and it determines the dead-ball spot. When an airborne player makes a catch, forward progress is the furthest point of advancement after he possesses the ball if contacted by a defender.
Foul 
A foul is a rule infraction for which a penalty is prescribed.
Huddle 
A huddle is two or more players of the same team grouped together before a down.
Line to gain 
The line to gain is the yard line established when a new series (first down) is awarded. Unless there is a penalty following the ready-for-play signal, the line to gain is 10 yards in advance of the foremost point of the ball when placed for the first down of the series. If the line to gain extends into the end zone, the goal line is the line to gain.
Line of Scrimmage 
The line of scrimmage for each team is a vertical plane through the point of the ball nearest the team's goal line. It is determined when the ball is marked ready for play and remains until the next ready-for-play signal.
Neutral Zone 
The neutral zone is the space between the two free-kick lines during a free-kick down and between the two scrimmage lines during a scrimmage down. For a free-kick down, the neutral zone is 10 yards wide and for a scrimmage down it is as wide as the length of the football. It is established when the ball is marked ready for play. The neutral zone may be expanded following the snap up to a maximum of two yards behind the defensive line of scrimmage, in the field of play, during any scrimmage down.
Penalty 
A penalty is a result imposed by rule against a team or team member that has committed a foul. Game situations that produce results somewhat similar to penalties but are not classified as fouls are disqualification of a player, first touching of a kick by K and forfeiture of a game.
Scrimmage 
Scrimmage is the action of the two teams during a down that begins with a snap.
Shift 
A shift is the action of one or more offensive players who, after a huddle or after taking set positions, move to a new set position before the ensuing snap.
Snap 
A snap is the legal act of passing or handing the ball backward from its position on the ground. The snap begins when the snapper first moves the ball legally other than in adjustment. In a snap, the movement must be a quick and continuous backward motion of the ball during which the ball immediately leaves the hand(s) of the snapper and touches a back or the ground before it touches a team A lineman. The snap ends when the ball touches the ground or any player.
Approved Ruling 
An approved ruling (AR) is an official decision on a given statement of facts. It serves to illustrate the spirit and application of the rules.


