The runner may not grasp a teammate. 
Defensive Player 
A defensive player shall not use his hands to add momentum to the charge of a teammate who is on the line of scrimmage; use his hands or arms to hook, lock, clamp, grasp, encircle or hold in an effort to restrain an opponent other than the runner; or contact an eligible receiver who is no longer a potential blocker. 
Blocker 
The blocker's hand(s) may not be locked nor may he swing, throw or flip the elbow or forearm so that it is moving faster than the blocker's shoulders at the time the elbow, forearm or shoulder contacts the opponent. The blocker may not initiate contact with his arm or hand against an opponent above the opponent's shoulder, but he may use his hand or arm to break a fall or maintain his balance. 

PENALTY 



42
Holding/obstuction Illegal use of hands/arms

APPROVED RULINGS 

AR 7.7.A 
During a running play, blocker A1 has his hands cupped and together in front of his body with his elbows outside his shoulders. As he approaches his opponent, he raises his hands and forearms perpendicular to the ground to contact his opponent. RULING: If the blocker's palms are facing the opponent or if his forearms are extended more than 45 degrees from his body, the hands must be open at and during contact. 
AR 7.7.B 
Blocker A1 has his hands and arms in legal position with the elbows outside the body and (a) when B1 attempts to penetrate his block in an upright position, he contacts B1 above the shoulders with his forearm or as B2 ducks or submarines, A1 contacts him above the shoulder with his cupped hands. RULING: In (a), it is an illegal blocking technique because contact was made above the defensive player's shoulders while he was in a normal upright position. In (b), the responsibility for the contact on the head of B2 is that of B2, because he has taken evasive action to avoid the block. It is assumed contact by A1 in (b) does not violate the provision of striking or contacting above the shoulders. 
AR 7.7.C 
In blocking B1, A1's forearms are almost fully extended from his body and he contacts B1 with the side of his closed hands. The palms of A1's hands are not directly facing B1. RULING: An illegal blocking technique by A1. The hands may not be closed or cupped when the arms are extended more than 45 degrees from the blocker's body. 
AR 7.7.D 
A1 is blocking with open hands (a) outside his own frame or (b) outside B1's frame during contact. RULING: A1 is using an illegal blocking technique in both (a) and (b). When the hands are outside the frame, as described above and grasps the opponent or his equipment, it is a holding foul instead of illegal use of hands. 
AR 7.7.E 
A1 makes legal contact on B1's chest using extended arms with open hands. B1 spins in an effort to evade A1 and get to the passer. A1 effectively maintains contact while shifting his hands to B1's upper arm and then directly on his back as B1 turns. A1 continues the contact and finishes the block by forcing B1 beyond the passer. RULING: The described blocking technique is legal. In order to legally contact the back of the opponent in this situation it must either be a continuation of contact that was legal originally or because the opponent turned so quickly the blocker could not stop his charge in time to avoid contact on the back. When the extended-arms technique is used, the hands must be open on contact and remain open during the contact. The open-hand blocking technique may be used in any situation where blocking is legal for A. 
AR 7.7.F 
End A1 sprints from the line and then cuts sharply toward the middle of the field. A1 makes no attempt to block defensive back B1. B1 pursues A1 and pushes him from the side using his open hands. Contact is made on A1's upper arm before the pass is thrown. A1 was moving away from B1 when the contact occurred. RULING: Illegal use of hands by B1. A defender may legally contact an eligible receiver beyond the neutral zone before the pass is in flight. The contact may be a block or warding off the opponent who is attempting to block by pushing or pulling him. However, if the receiver is not attempting to block or has gone past or is moving away, it is illegal for the defender to use hands in the manner described. In this situation, it is clear that A1 is no longer a potential blocker on B1. 
AR 7.7.G 
As the offensive linemen charge on the snap of the ball, B1 (a) grasps guard A1 by the jersey and controls him until he sees where the ball is going, (b) slaps A1 on the side of the helmet with an open hand and forces his head to the side with what is commonly called the "bell ringer," (b) contacts A1 with one hand on his shoulder pad and the other hand on his helmet in fighting off the block, (d) pulls A1's shoulders to one side and charges through in an effort to get to the runner or (e) pulls A1's shoulders to one side so B2 may charge through to the runner. RULING: It is holding in (a), that will result in a 10-yard penalty administered in accordance with the all-but-one principle, if accepted. In (b), it is illegal personal contact and (e), it is illegal use of hands by B1, that also carries a 10-yard penalty. The action by B1 in (c) and (d) is legal. 


