A forward pass, legal or illegal, is incomplete and the ball becomes dead when the pass touches the ground or goes out of bounds. It is also incomplete when a player in the air possesses the pass and lands so that his first contact with the ground or with anything other than a player or game official is on or outside a boundary. An airborne player with control of the ball is required first to have at least one foot or body part down inbounds.
Down Counts 
When an incompletion occurs the down counts unless the pass is after a change of possession. If the incomplete pass is legal, the passing team next snaps the ball at the previous spot, unless lost after fourth down.
APPROVED RULINGS
AR 5.7.A 
Quarterback A1 drops back to pass and is under a heavy rush. A1 is hit and the ball drops to the ground and B1 recovers. At the instant A1 was hit and lost possession, his passing arm was (a) moving backward, was extended back but not moving in either direction or (c) was moving forward. RULING: In (a) and (b), it is a fumble and B gains possession. In (c), since A1's arm was moving forward, it is an incomplete forward pass and the ball becomes dead when it hits the ground.
AR 5.7.B 
A pass from A1 is possessed by A2 while he is in the air above B's end zone. A2 loses control when he is contacted by B1 while in the air. The ball falls to the ground. RULING: The pass is incomplete.
AR 5.7.C 
B1 attempts to intercept a pass while in the air and (a) the ball touches one hand and then deflects to the other without securing possession, after that B1 lands with his first step inbounds and second out of bounds or (b) B1 is juggling the ball as he takes two steps inbounds and then out of bounds. RULING: Incomplete pass in (a) and (b).
AR 5.7.D 
A pass from A1 is thrown near the intersection of the sideline and the goal line. A2, running toward the goal line, leaps and possesses the pass at the 3-yard line and is forcibly tackled from behind by B1 so that first contact with the ground by A2 is out of bounds one yard beyond the goal line. RULING: Incomplete pass. The added force in the general direction the player was moving is not considered a factor affecting his spot of landing. Therefore, when A2 landed out of bounds, the pass was incomplete.
AR 5.7.E 
Airborne A1 and B1 simultaneously gain possession of a legal forward pass near the goal line. When they return to the ground, A1 lands in the end zone and B1 lands out of bounds. RULING: Incomplete pass. In order for there to be a simultaneous catch, opposing players must have simultaneous joint possession and both must be in contact with the ground inbounds.


