All A players who are not on the ends of their scrimmage line or legally behind the line are ineligible receivers. Ineligible A players may not advance beyond the expanded neutral zone on a legal forward pass play before a legal forward pass that crosses the neutral zone is in flight. If B touches the pass in or behind the neutral zone, this restriction is terminated. An ineligible is not illegally downfield if, at the snap, he immediately contacts a B lineman and the contact does not continue beyond the expanded neutral zone.
PENALTY


37
Ineligible Downfield
APPROVED RULINGS
AR 5.9.A 
B1 is on his defensive line of scrimmage when he is contacted by ineligible lineman A1 and driven back about two yards. RULING: A1 is not illegally downfield if a forward pass crosses the neutral zone, since he contacted B1 on the line and after driving him back did not go beyond the neutral zone expanded.
AR 5.9.B 
A1 drops back and throws a screen pass to flanker A2, who is behind the neutral zone. B2 has come across the line and deflects the pass so that its flight is altered and the pass goes beyond the neutral zone. Ineligible A8 has gone beyond the expanded neutral zone before the pass is released. RULING: Since B has touched the forward pass in or behind the neutral zone, there is no foul for an ineligible downfield.
AR 5.9.C 
At the snap, interior lineman A1 moves about three yards downfield and finding no one to block, retreats behind the neutral zone and blocks for A2, who eventually throws a forward pass that crosses the neutral zone. RULING: A1 is an ineligible illegally downfield. The prohibition against ineligibles downfield for A starts at the snap and the fact A1 was no longer downfield when the pass was thrown has no bearing on the ruling.
AR 5.9.D 
Eligible receiver A1 is running a sideline route when he intentionally steps out of bounds at A's 30-yard line. A1 returns inbounds and catches or touches a forward pass from A2, (b) cannot catch a forward pass because of interference by B3 or (c) interferes with B3 so he cannot intercept the pass. RULING: Stepping out of bounds means A1 is guilty of illegal participation, a 15-yard penalty enforced from the previous spot. He is not an ineligible illegally downfield. In (a), when he catches or touches the pass, he is also guilty of illegal touching. In (b), the interference by B3 creates a double foul; the penalties cancel and the down is replayed. In (c), A1 is also guilty of offensive pass interference.


