The basic spot is the previous spot for fouls by K that occur between the snap and the end of a scrimmage kick and between a free kick and the end of a free kick. Post-scrimmage kick penalty enforcement (PSK) is used after a foul by R when the foul occurs during scrimmage kick plays other than a try or successful field goal; during a scrimmage kick play in which the ball crosses the expanded neutral zone; the foul occurs beyond the expanded neutral zone; before the end of a kick; and K will not be next to put the ball in play.
Enforced from the Basic Spot 
PSK fouls are enforced from the basic spot. The basic spot is a point of reference for penalty enforcement. It is the previous spot for a loose-ball play unless the only accepted fouls meet the requirements of a post-scrimmage kick foul.
Post-Scrimmage Spot 
The post-scrimmage spot is the spot where the kick ends. R retains the ball after penalty enforcement from the post-scrimmage spot when a PSK foul occurs. Fouls by R behind the post-scrimmage spot are spot fouls.
APPROVED RULINGS
AR 3.18.A 
Fourth-and-5 from K's 20-yard line, K is in an illegal formation at the snap. While K1's punt is in flight, beyond the expanded neutral zone, R2 blocks K8 in the back at the 50-yard line. R4 catches the kick at R's 36- yard line and returns it for a touchdown. RULING: That is a PSK foul by R. Therefore, R may decline K's foul and keep the ball after enforcement of the 10-yard foul for the block in the back or it may accept the penalty against K, thereby creating a double foul in which case the down shall be replayed.
AR 3.18.B 
Fourth-and-8 for K from its own 45-yard line. Prior to R2 catching the kick, R7 clips K5 at the 50-yard line and R2 catches the kick at his 20- yard line and is immediately tackled. RULING: The ball will belong to R, first-and-10 at its 10-yard line. The basic spot is the 20-yard line as post-scrimmage kick enforcement applies.
AR 3.18.C 
Fourth-and-11 from K's 36-yard line. While the punt was in flight, beyond the expanded neutral zone, R6 was guilty of holding K3 at R's 32- yard line. The kick goes into the end zone. RULING: Since the kick ended in R's end zone, the post-scrimmage kick enforcement spot is the 20-yard line. It will be R's ball, first-and-10 from R's 10-yard line after the half-the-distance enforcement.
AR 3.18.D 
K is in punt formation from the 50-yard line. Following the snap but prior to the ball being kicked, R6 holds K4 at R's 46-yard line. The punt crosses the neutral zone, bounces at R's 25 and rolls to R's 18 where R4 recovers. RULING: The basic spot is R's 18-yard line. Since R6's foul occurs beyond the basic spot, the penalty is enforced from the basic spot. R is penalized half the distance to the goal, making it R's ball First-and-10 at R's 9-yard line.
AR 3.18.E 
Fourth-and-5 for K from R's 49-yard line. R9 catches the kick on the 15-yard line and returns the ball to R's 40-yard line, where he is downed. During the return, R3 holds K7 at R's 30-yard line. RULING: That is not a PSK foul but a foul during a running play. Following enforcement of R's holding penalty, it would be R's ball, first-and-10 from R's 20-yard line.
AR 3.18.F 
Fourth-and-5 for K from its own 20-yard line. R9 catches the kick on K's 45-yard line and returns the ball to K's 40-yard line, where he is downed. K1 is flagged for (a) holding while K1's punt is in flight or (b) grasping R9's facemask during R9's run. RULING: In (a), if team R accepts the penalty, it is enforced from the previous spot. R can start a new series at K's 40-yard line by declining the penalty. In (b), if team R accepts the penalty, it is enforced from the end of R9's run.


