The team legally in possession after a free kick, touchback, fair catch, awarded fair catch or change of team possession shall put the ball in play by snap. That team is awarded a series of four consecutively numbered downs in which to advance the ball to the line to gain. Each awarded first down starts a new series of four downs. The ball may also be put in play by free kick following a fair catch or awarded fair catch. 
After change of Team Possession 
To start a new series of downs after a change of team possession after a touchback, the foremost point of the ball is placed on the 20-yard line. 
New Series Awarded to Team who put Ball in Play (A) 
When a scrimmage down ends with the ball in the field of play or out of bounds between the goal lines, a new series is awarded to A if the ball belongs to A on or beyond the line to gain. 
New Series Awarded to Opponent (B) 
When a scrimmage down ends with the ball in the field of play or out of bounds between the goal lines, a new series is awarded to B if the ball belongs to B at the end of any down; or if, at the end of fourth down, the ball belongs to A behind the line to gain.
New Series Awarded to Team in Possession 
When a scrimmage down ends with the ball in the field of play or out of bounds between the goal lines, a new series is awarded to the team in possession at the end of the down if R is the first to touch a scrimmage kick while it is beyond the expanded neutral zone, unless the penalty is accepted for a non post-scrimmage kick foul that occurred before the kick ended; or if there is a change of team possession during the down, unless the penalty is accepted for a non post-scrimmage kick foul that occurred before the change of possession.
After Free-Kick Down Ends 
When a free-kick down ends with the ball in the field of play or out of bounds between the goal lines, a new series is awarded to the team in possession of the ball when the down ends if the ball is recovered beyond R's free-kick line with no first touching by K. 
After A Scrimmage Kick 
After a scrimmage kick, a new series is awarded to R at the spot of first touching by K, if K is first to touch the kicked ball beyond the expanded neutral zone before it is touched beyond this zone by R and before it has come to rest. However, the right of R to take the ball at the spot of the first touching by K is canceled if R touches the kick and thereafter during the down commits a foul or if the penalty is accepted for any foul committed during the down. 
New Series Awarded to Opponent (R) at Inbounds Spot 
When a free-kick down ends with the ball in the field of play or out of bounds between the goal lines, a new series is awarded to R at the inbounds spot if R touches the kicked ball before it goes out of bounds. 
New Series Awarded to Opponent (R) at Spot of Recovery 
When a free-kick down ends with the ball in the field of play or out of bounds between the goal lines, a new series is awarded to R at the spot of recovery if K recovers the kicked ball before it travels the 10 yards to R' free-kick line and before R has touched the ball or if there is joint possession by R and K of a recovered kick. 
New Series Awarded to Opponent (R) at Spot of First Touching 
When a free-kick down ends with the ball in the field of play or out of bounds between the goal lines, a new series is awarded to R at the spot of first touching by K if K is the first to touch the kicked ball before it has gone 10 yards. However, the right of R to take the ball at the spot of the first touching by K is canceled if R touches the kick and thereafter during the down commits a foul or if the penalty is accepted for any foul committed during the down. 

APPROVED RULINGS 

AR 6.1.A 
Following the ready-for-play signal for a new series by A, (a) B1 encroaches or (b) A1 false starts. RULING: In (a), it is first and five for A. In it is first and 15 for A. 
AR 6.1.B 
third-and-10 for A from B's 40-yard line. A1 gains 10 yards and is downed on B's 30. A2 taunts B1 during the run. RULING: Since the live-ball action gave A a new series, the line to gain shall be established after A is penalized for A2's unsportsmanlike act. It will be First-and-10 for A from B's 45-yard line. 


