The officials shall have the authority to make decisions for infractions of the rules. The game officials shall assume authority for the contest, including penalizing unsportsmanlike acts, 30 minutes prior to the scheduled game time or as soon there after as they are able to be present. The officials' jurisdiction extends through the referee's declaration of the end of the fourth period or overtime.
APPROVED RULINGS
AR 11.1.A 
The game officials inspect the playing field as a part of their pregame routine and determine that (a) the game field does not have the required restraining line marked at all on the field from the sidelines and end lines or (b) the 3-yard line that is marked on the game field for the try is only 12 inches in length. RULING: In both (a) and (b), the field markings are not legal by rule, but the game will still be played. In (a), a four-inch-wide restraining line shall be placed around the outside of the field, at least two yards from the sidelines and end lines, as an extension of the line limiting the team box area, except in stadiums where the total playing enclosure does not permit. In (b), a line four inches wide and a minimum of 24 inches in length shall be centered in the field of play, three yards from each goal line. The game officials must notify league officers to let them know the field was not properly marked.
AR 11.1.B 
A coach reports that his team's headphones are not working. RULING: Whether or not the headphones are working on either side does not come under the jurisdiction of the officials. 
AR 11.1.C 
Upon returning to the field near the end of the normal 15-minute halftime intermission, the officials notice one team standing quietly in front of its bench during the entire three minutes posted for warm-up. The officials start the game as soon as the three minutes have elapsed or (b) inform the coach of that team he must have his team actively warm up by running or doing some kind of exercises. RULING: The officials are correct in (a), but in error in (b). The rules simply require that an opportunity to warm up be made available.
AR 11.1.D 
A trails by three points in the fourth period with the ball on B's 20, fourth-and-10 and two seconds on the clock. A1 throws an incomplete pass into B's end zone with time expired. The referee quickly glances to each sideline and then begins to leave the field. After he crosses the sideline, the referee hears the line judge blowing his whistle. The line judge explains he called pass interference on B1. RULING: The game is not officially over even though the referee left the field. Since a foul had been called, the referee will give A a chance to accept the penalty and extend the period with an untimed down from B's 10-yard line. 


