No player or nonplayer shall charge into or throw an opponent to the ground after he is obviously out of the play or after the ball is clearly dead either in or out of bounds; pile on any player who is lying on the ground; positions himself on the shoulders or body of a teammate or opponent to gain an advantage; throw a helmet to trip an opponent; or make any other contact with an opponent that is deemed unnecessary and that incites roughness. 
Slapping the Blocker's Head 
No defensive player may use the hand(s) to slap the blocker's head.
Initiating Contact 
The blocker may not initiate contact with his arm or hand against an opponent above the opponent's shoulder. 
Hurdling 
No player or nonplayer shall hurdle an opponent. Hurdling is an attempt by a player to jump (hurdle) with one or both feet or knees foremost over an opponent who is contacting the ground with no part of his body except one or both feet. 
Helmet-to-Helmet Contact 
No player shall initiate helmet-to-helmet contact on an opponent. 

PENALTY 



38
Personal Foul
Disqualification also if any foul is flagrant.


47
Disqualification 
If foul is by B, penalty includes an automatic first down.


8
First down 

APPROVED RULINGS 

AR 7.13.A 
Quarterback A1 has (a) handed off to A2 and is walking away observing the progress of the play or (b) thrown a legal forward pass and is moving away from the play after the pass was caught. In (a) and (b), B1 tackles A1. RULING: Illegal personal contact by B1 in both (a) and (b). It is a foul for illegal personal contact when a player charges into or throws an opponent to the ground after he is obviously out of the play. The 15- yard penalty is administered in accordance with the all-but-one principle and includes an automatic first down. If the act is flagrant, B1 must be disqualified. 
AR 7.13.B 
R1 (a) steps on the back of snapper A1 immediately after the snap as he propels himself into the air to block a punt or (b) R1 jumps on R2's shoulders in an effort to block a field-goal attempt. RULING: A personal foul in (a) and (b). The 15-yard penalty is enforced from the previous spot and includes an automatic first down. 
AR 7.13.C 
During a forward-pass play, eligible receiver A1 runs a pass pattern and it is obvious he will be unable to catch the pass from A2, B1 aggressively contacts A1. The contact occurs (a) after the pass is incomplete, striking the ground or (b) is well overthrown but is still in flight. RULING: In (a), because this contact is following the incomplete pass, it is a dead-ball foul. The foul would be penalized 15 yards from the succeeding spot and includes an automatic first down. In (b), because the pass was still in flight when B1 contacted A1, it was pass interference even though it is obvious the pass was overthrown and is not catchable. The penalty is 15 yards from the previous spot and an automatic first down. 
AR 7.13.D 
Wide receiver A9 goes downfield 10 yards and starts to block B10. B10 slaps A9 on the side of the helmet in an effort to avoid the block. RULING: Illegal personal contact. The 15-yard penalty is administered in accordance with the all-but-one principle and includes an automatic first down. Disqualification also if the foul is flagrant. 


