A player is one of the 22 team members on the field or one who subsequently replaces another player.
Back 
A back is any A player who has no part of his body breaking the plane of an imaginary line drawn parallel to the line of scrimmage through the waist of the nearest teammate who is legally on the line, except for the player under the snapper, who is also considered a back.
Blocker 
A blocker is a player who is blocking or is in position to block.
Captain of a Team 
A captain of a team is a player designated to represent his team during the pregame and overtime coin tosses, the selection of second-half options, penalty decisions following fouls and ball placement on trys, kickoffs, after safetys, after fair catches or awarded fair catches, after touchbacks and to start overtimes.
Disqualified Player 
A disqualified player is a player barred from further participation in a game.
Holder 
A holder is a player who controls the ball on the ground or on a kicking tee/block.
Kicker 
A kicker is any player who legally punts, drop kicks or place kicks. A player becomes a kicker when his knee, lower leg or foot makes contact with the ball. He continues to be the kicker until he has had reasonable opportunity to regain his balance or until after a free kick, he has advanced 5 yards beyond his free-kick line or the kick has touched the ground or any other player.
Lineman 
A lineman is any A player who is facing his opponent's goal line with the line of his shoulders approximately parallel to the line of scrimmage and with his head or foot breaking an imaginary plane drawn parallel to the line of scrimmage through the waist of the snapper when the ball is snapped.
Nonplayer 
A nonplayer is a coach, athletic trainer, other attendant, a substitute or a replaced player who does not participate by touching the ball, hindering an opponent or influencing the play.
Out of Bounds 
A player or other person is out of bounds when any part of the person is touching anything, other than another player or game official, that is on or outside the sideline or end line.
Passer 
A passer is a player who throws a legal forward pass. He continues to be a passer until the legal forward pass ends or until he moves to participate in the play.
Replaced Player 
A replaced player is one who has been notified by a substitute that he is to leave the field. A player is also replaced when the entering substitute becomes a player.
Runner 
A runner is a player who is in possession of a live ball or is simulating possession of a live ball.
Snapper 
A snapper is the player who is facing his opponent's goal line with his shoulders approximately parallel thereto and who snaps the ball. In a scrimmage-kick formation, the snapper remains a snapper until he has had a reasonable opportunity to regain his balance and protect himself or until he blocks or moves to otherwise participate in the play.
Substitute 
A substitute is a team member who may replace a player or fill a player vacancy. A substitute becomes a player when he enters the field and communicates with a teammate or an official, enters the huddle, is positioned in a formation or participates in the play. An entering substitute is not considered to be a player for encroachment restrictions until he is on his team's side of the neutral zone. A team member entering the field to fill a player vacancy remains a substitute until he is on his team's side of the neutral zone.


