A passer is a player who throws a legal forward pass. He continues to be a passer until the legal forward pass ends or until he moves to participate in the play.

Charging
Defensive players must make a definite effort to avoid charging into a passer, who has thrown the ball from in or behind the neutral zone, after it is clear the ball has been thrown. No defensive player shall charge into the passer who is standing still or fading back, because he is considered out of the play after the pass.

PENALTY

15 yards and a first down from the end of the last run when the last run ends beyond the neutral zone and there has been no change of team possession.

Otherwise, the penalty is 15 yards and an automatic first down from the previous spot.
 
34
Roughing the Passer
Disqualification also if any foul is flagrant

 
47
Roughing the Passer
APPROVED RULINGS

AR 7.16.A
A1 (a) passes from behind the neutral zone and is subsequently contacted by B1, who could have avoided the contact but renewed his charge after the pass or (b) is two yards beyond the neutral zone when he passes and B1 continues his charge and contacts him. RULING: It is roughing the passer in (a). In (b), it cannot be roughing the passer because A1 lost his protection as a passer when he passed from beyond the neutral zone. However, the contact could still be ruled a personal foul.

AR 7.16.B
A1's pass on fourth-and-15 from A's 40 is complete to A2 at midfield. During the pass, A1 is roughed by B1. A2 advances to B's 30 where he fumbles the ball out of bounds at B's (a) 28 or (b) 32-yard line. RULING: In both (a) and (b), if the penalty is accepted, it is administered from the end of A2's run, that is B's 30-yard line.

AR 7.16.C
From A's 20-yard line, passer A1 is roughed by B1. The pass is completed to A2 who is (a) downed on A's 18 or (b) fumbles and the ball is recovered by B3. RULING: In (a) and (b), enforcement is from the previous spot, resulting in a first down for A from B's 35-yard line.

AR 7.16.D
A1's pass on fourth-and-20 from A's 20 is complete to A2 at A's 25-yard line. During the pass, A1 is roughed by B1. A2 advances to A's 29, where he fumbles. The ball (a) rolls out of bounds at A's 30 or (b) is recovered by B2 at A's 30. RULING: Because of the change of possession in both (a) and (b), if the penalty is accepted, it is administered from the end of A2's run (A's 29-yard line).
