Tackling is the use of hands, arms, legs or body by a defensive player in his attempt to hold a runner or to bring him to the ground. 
Shoulder Pads or Jersey Usage 
All players are prohibited from grabbing the inside back or side collar of the shoulder pads or jersey and pulling an opponent down (horse-collar). 

PENALTY 



38
Personal foul


25
Illegal Horse-collar tackle 


8
First down 
Automatic first down

APPROVED RULINGS 

AR 7.10.A 
During a running play beyond the neutral zone, A1 is momentarily in the clear and B1 comes up to make the tackle. B1 keeps his head in an upright position with his eyes on the numbers of A1 and (a) moves his head at the last moment so that he contacts A1 with his shoulder or (b) moves his head to attempt a shoulder tackle, but because of a sharp cut by A1, there is some contact with the side of the helmet of B1. RULING: Legal in both (a) and (b). 
AR 7.10.B 
B1 tackles runner A1 with (a) a cross-body block at the knees, (b) a block from behind and below the waist, (c) a trip with his foot or (d) his arms and shoulder. RULING: The techniques in (a), (b), (c) and (d) are all legal. 
AR 7.10.C 
B1 grabs runner A1's shoulder pad opening from behind and (a) pulls A1 down abruptly backward; (b) pulls A1 down to the ground from the side; (c) rides A1 for several yards before pulling A1 backward to the ground; or (d) rides A1 for several yards before A1 falls forward. RULING: Horse-collar in (a), (b) and (c), no foul in (d). 
AR 7.10.D 
B1 grabs runner A1's shoulder pad opening from behind and (a) A1 does not go down from the contact; (b) B2 tackles A1 while still in B1's grasp; or (c) A1 runs four more yards before being pulled down. RULING: No foul in (a) and (b); foul in (c) because A1 subsequently went down because of the horse-collar. 
AR 7.10.E 
B1 grabs runner A1's shoulder pad opening from behind, causing A1 to fumble. B2 recovers the fumble. A1 (a) does not go down from the contact; or (b) does go down. RULING: No foul in (a) because A1 did not go down. Horse-collar in (b). 


