Prior to the game, the referee shall meet with the head coach(es) and captain(s) and explain that everyone is expected to exhibit good sportsmanship throughout the game.

Ruling
The referee has authority to rule promptly and in the spirit of good sportsmanship on any situation not specifically covered in the rules. The referee's decisions are final in all matters pertaining to the game.

Ball Usage
The referee shall decide whether the ball meets specifications. If the field is wet, the referee may order the ball changed between downs.

Prior to the Game
Prior to the start of the game, the head coach shall be responsible for verifying to the referee and umpire that all of his players are legally equipped and in compliance with the rules.

Decision to Forfeit
The referee's decision to forfeit a game is final.

Clock Start or Stop
When a team attempts to conserve or consume time illegally, the referee shall order the clock to be started or stopped.

After a Time-out
The referee shall notify the teams within five seconds after the time-out expires and shall mark the ball ready for play.

Moving the Ball
In an emergency, such as a pool of water on K's free-kick line, the referee has authority to move the ball to a playable line.

Making a Travesty of the Game
Neither team shall commit any act that, in the opinion of the referee, tends to make a travesty of the game. For violations, the referee has authority to enforce any penalty he considers equitable, including the award of a score.

APPROVED RULINGS

AR 11.2.A
Prior to the game, both teams wait for the other team to go on the field first. RULING: The referee shall direct the home-team coach to have his team enter first. The referee has authority to rule on any situation not specifically covered in the rules.

AR 11.2.B
Prior to the start of the game, A has provided two balls for the referee's examination, but B has not provided a ball. RULING: There is no penalty if a team does not provide a ball; however, in this case, B will have to use the ball(s) provided by A until such time B offers a legal ball for the referee's approval.

AR 11.2.C
The referee has examined and verified the legality of a number of balls provided by each team prior to the game. However, during the course of the game, the weather conditions change dramatically and the teams wish to have additional balls approved for use. RULING: This is permissible and is within the intent of the rule.

AR 11.2.D
During the third period, a thunderstorm moves into the area. The crew of officials huddle to assess the situation. There is disagreement among the crew as to whether the game should be suspended. RULING: The referee will make the final decision. If possible, he should involve league officers and/or the head coaches before making the final decision unless there is no time for discussion. Player safety always must be the primary consideration.
