Tape, bandage or support wrap not to exceed three thicknesses are legal without inspection or approval.
Auxiliary Player Equipment Material 
Auxiliary equipment may be worn if sanctioned by the umpire as being soft, nonabrasive, nonhardening material. That includes gloves, that may be anchored with athletic tape and, even though modified, must have a securely attached label or stamp (NFHS/NCAA specifications) indicating compliance with test specifications on file with the Sporting Goods Manufacturers Association (SGMA) as of January 1, 1994, unless made of unaltered plain cloth; hand pads, that may be anchored with athletic tape; forearm pads, that may be anchored on each end with athletic tape; or tape, bandage or support wrap on the hand or forearm to protect an existing injury. 
Glove 
A glove is a covering for the hand having separate sections for each finger and thumb, absent of any web-like material between the fingers and/ or thumb and completely covering each finger and thumb.
Hand Pads 
Beginning in 2012, hand pads must have a securely attached label or stamp indicating compliance with test specifications on file with the SGMA as of January 1, 1994 unless made of unaltered plain cloth. A hand pad is a covering for the hand, that may have separate openings for each finger and thumb, is absent of any web-like material between the fingers and/or thumb and not covering each finger and thumb.
APPROVED RULINGS
AR 12.8.A 
During the pregame conference, the home team's coach informs the umpire that all players' gloves are new but none of the gloves have the required label/stamp indicating compliance with test specifications. RULING: The gloves may not be worn; all gloves must have the required label or stamp.
AR 12.8.B 
During the pregame warm-ups, the umpire notices that a few of A's linemen have hand pads that do not have label/stamp indicating compliance with test specifications. RULING: The hand pads are legal. A label/stamp is not required until 2012.
AR 12.8.C 
A1 is wearing (a) a biceps pad or (b) an ankle support. In all three cases a hard plastic surface on the outside of the pad/support is not covered, but all the edges are rounded and there are no cutting or abrasive surfaces. RULING: The items described in (a) and (b) are legal. The exposed plastic does not require a covering on those specific items of equipment. However, if any of the plastic surface is cracked or has a cutting edge it would not be legal. If the biceps pad is connected to the shoulder pad, it must be fully covered by the jersey.


