Force is the result of energy exerted by a player that provides movement of the ball. The term force is used only in connection with the goal line and in only one direction, i.e., from the field of play into the end zone. Initial force results from a carry, fumble, pass or snap. After a fumble or backward pass has been grounded, a new force may result from a bat or a muff. The muffing or batting of a pass or fumble in flight is not considered a new force.
Touchback- forward pass intercepted 
It is a touchback when a forward pass is intercepted in B's end zone and becomes dead there in B's possession, when a fumble is the force or a muff or bat of a backward pass or a fumble after either has touched the ground is the new force, that sends the ball to or across the opponent's goal line and provided such opponent is in team possession or the ball is out of bounds when it becomes dead on or behind its goal line.
Touchback by player 
If a player provides the force to a fumble or a backward pass that goes out of bounds behind the opponent's goal line, the result is a touchback. The team whose goal line is involved in a touchback shall put the ball in play anywhere between the hash marks on its 20-yard line by a snap.
APPROVED RULINGS
AR 8.7.A 
A pass from A1 is possessed by A2 while he is in the air above B's end zone. A2 loses control when he is contacted by B1 while in the air. The ball is intercepted and downed by B2 in the end zone. RULING: It is a touchback.
AR 8.7.B 
A1's forward pass is intercepted in B's end zone by B1, who attempts to advance but is downed there. B2 clips at B's 4-yard line (a) during B1's run or (b) after B1 is downed. RULING: It is a touchback in both (a) and (b) and the basic spot is the succeeding spot. In (a), it is First-and-10 for B from B's 2-yard line. In (b), the dead-ball foul will be penalized from B's 20, resulting in First-and-10 from B's 10-yard line. 
AR 8.7.C 
A1 throws a pass from B's 22-yard line. B1 intercepts the pass in his own end zone and is tackled prior to leaving the end zone. During the run, B2 holds A2 at B's 10-yard line. RULING: The basic enforcement spot is the 20-yard line. If the penalty is accepted, it will be enforced from the spot of the foul. B will have a First-and-10 from its own 5-yard line. If the penalty is declined, it will be B's First-and-10 from B's 20-yard line.
AR 8.7.D 
K1's punt is blocked on K's 5-yard line and the ball is slowly rolling near the goal line. R1 attempts to recover and just barely touches the ball. The ball then rolls into the end zone where K2 falls on it. RULING: The covering official will have to judge whether or not a new force resulted from R1's touch. The official must decide whether the original force was such that the ball could have gone into the end zone regardless of the muff. If the official has doubt, he will rule that the force was supplied by the kick, thus resulting in a safety. If the official rules R1 supplied the force, it is a touchback.
AR 8.7.E 
With fourth down and seven from K's 10, K1 punts from the end zone. The kick is partially blocked and is just barely moving at K's 2-yard line when R1's muff provides a new force that moves the ball into and out of the end zone. RULING: Touchback. Because it was the new force by R1 that caused the ball to go out of K's end zone, the result is a touchback instead of a safety.
AR 8.7.F 
B1 intercepts a forward pass in his end zone and then passes backward to B2 who (a) muffs the ball so that it goes out of bounds across the sideline behind the goal line or (b) bats the ball over the end line. RULING: In both (a) and (b), the force that put the ball into the end zone was the pass by A1. When B2 muffed the backward pass out of bounds in the end zone or batted the backward pass in flight so that it went over the end line, the result is a touchback. It will be First-and-10 for B from its 20-yard line.
AR 8.7.G 
K1's scrimmage kick is blocked on K's 5-yard line and is rolling away from K's goal line when R1 muffs the ball into K's end zone (applies a new force to a grounded kick). K2 recovers the ball and attempts to advance but is downed in the end zone. During K2's run R1 holds K3 in the end zone. RULING: It is a touchback and the basic spot is the 20-yard line.


