Illegal helmet contact is an act of initiating contact with the helmet against an opponent. Butt blocking, face tackling and spearing are examples of illegal helmet contact. Illegal helmet contact may be considered a flagrant act. 
Butt Blocking 
Butt blocking is an act by an offensive or defensive player who initiates contact against an opponent who is not a ball carrier with the front of his helmet. 
Face tackling 
Face tackling is an act by a defensive player who initiates contact with a ball carrier with the front of his helmet. 
Spearing 
Spearing is an act by an offensive or defensive player who initiates contact against any opponent with the top of his helmet. 
Strike Above the Shoulders 
No player shall strike an opponent above the shoulders using his helmet, shoulder or arms. 

PENALTY 



24
Illegal Helmet Contact
Disqualification if flagrant


47
Disqualification 
If foul is by B, penalty includes an automatic first down.


8
First down 

APPROVED RULINGS 

AR 7.11.A 
From a four-point stance on the offensive line, interior lineman A1 (a) contacts an opponent by driving his facemask directly into the opponent's chest, (b) contacts an opponent with his shoulder so that his head is to the side of the opponent's body and the helmet does not make initial contact or (c) attempts to block an opponent with a shoulder, but because of a defensive slant, primary contact with the opponent is made with A1's helmet. RULING: The block in (a) is illegal butt blocking. In (b), even though there was some contact with the helmet, the block is legal because the helmet or facemask was not used to deliver the blow. In (c), the covering official will have to use good judgment. Because of defensive slants and stunts, there will be instances in which the blocker attempts to make a legal shoulder block but inadvertently contacts an opponent with either his facemask or helmet. When this is the case, contact does not result in a direct blow and is legal. 
AR 7.11.B 
Flanker A1 comes back toward the ball and contacts B1 from the front above the waist in delivering a blow with his facemask. RULING: Foul by A1. Even though the contact with B1 was above the waist, it is butt blocking because the facemask was used to make initial contact. 
AR 7.11.C 
Wide receiver A1 goes downfield 15 yards, cuts sharply to the outside and stops near the sideline and catches the pass. B1 drives his helmet into A1. RULING: The use of the helmet is spearing by B1. 
AR 7.11.D 
Runner A1 breaks free beyond the neutral zone (a) As B1 and B2 are closing in to tackle him, A1 veers into B1 and deliberately drives his helmet into B1's chest or (b) as B1 and B2 attempt to bring him down, A1 lowers his head and drives forward for yardage and he contacts B1 and/or B2 with his helmet. RULING: Spearing by A1 in (a) as he uses his helmet to punish B1. It is a 15-yard penalty. If the spearing is flagrant, A1 must be disqualified. In (b), the lowering of the head to pick up additional yardage is not illegal unless it is done to punish an opponent or if he uses his helmet to butt or ram. The runner's normal reaction is to attempt to gain yardage when being tackled. 
AR 7.11.E 
During a running play, A1 breaks into the secondary. Safety B1 comes up quickly and drives his facemask or helmet directly into the chest of A1. B1 simultaneously wraps his arms around A1 bringing him to the ground. RULING: This is a face-tackling foul by B1. 


