When any required player equipment is missing or when illegal equipment is found, correction shall be made before participation. An official's timeout shall be declared to permit prompt repair of equipment that becomes illegal or defective through use.
Not Allowed to participate 
No player shall participate while wearing illegal equipment, including equipment that, in the opinion of the umpire is dangerous, confusing or inappropriate.
Jewelry & Religious/Medical Medals 
Jewelry shall not be worn. Religious and medical alert medals are not considered jewelry. A religious medal must be taped and worn under the uniform. A medical alert medal must be taped and may be visible.
Eye Shield 
If worn attached to the helmet, an eye shield is illegal unless it is constructed of a molded, rigid material that is clear and permits 100 percent (no tint) allowable light transmission. Sunglasses or tinted goggles or eyeglasses are permitted.
Illegal Equipment 
Illegal equipment shall always include but is not limited to:
	Ball-colored helmets, jerseys, patches, pads or gloves, penalty- marker colored pads or gloves. Any transverse stripe on the sleeve below the elbow.
	Communication devices other than audio recorders, Local Area Network (LAN) phones and/or headsets including but not limited to cellular phones; still photograph(s), film, analog or digital video(s) and/or Internet depictions. Such prohibition does not include the use of computers and/or other electronic devices that produce reports for the purpose of compiling statistics. However, the use of computers and/or other electronic devices shall be considered illegal if they are used at any time during the game and can be used to produce play tendencies and other scouting information and such information is given to any member of any team prior to the conclusion of the game.
	Hard substance in its final form such as leather, rubber, plastic, plaster or fiberglass when worn on the hand, wrist, forearm or elbow unless covered on all exterior surfaces with no less than 1/2-inch thick, high-density, closed-cell polyurethane or an alternate material of the same minimum thickness and with similar physical properties to protect an injury as directed in writing by a licensed medical physician (M.D./D.O.) Such written direction shall be provided to the umpire prior to the start of the game.
	Knee braces made of hard unyielding material, unless all parts of the brace made of hard material and extending below the pants are covered. Any other hard substance across the front of the leg are covered with at least 1/2 inch of closed-cell, slow-recovery rubber or other material of the same minimum thickness and having similar physical properties.
	Metal that is projecting or other hard substance on clothes or person. 
	Plastic material covering protective pads whose edges are not rounded with a radius equal to half the thickness of the plastic.
	Rib pads and back protectors unless fully covered by a jersey.
	Jerseys, undershirts or exterior arm covers/pads manufactured to enhance contact with the football or opponent.
	Slippery or sticky substance of a foreign nature on equipment, towel, uniform, opponent or on an exposed part of the body that affects the ball or an opponent.
	Tear-away jerseys or jerseys that have been altered in any manner that produces a knot-like protrusion or creates a tear-away jersey.
	Uniform adornments, with the exception of one unmarked moisture-absorbing white towel, that shall be no less than four inches in width and 12 inches in length and no greater than 18 inches in width and 36 inches in length and/or moisture-absorbing sweatbands, when worn on the wrist beginning at the base of the thumb and extending no more than three inches toward the elbow.
	Jerseys and pants that have more than one manufacturer's logo/ trademark on the outside of each item; a visible logo/trademark exceeding 2-1/4 square inches and exceeding 2-1/4 inches in any dimension; more than one manufacturer's logo/trademark or reference on the outside of each item. (The same size restriction shall apply to either the manufacturer's logo/ trademark or reference); or sizing, garment care or other nonlogo labels on the outside of either item.
PENALTY
Failure of the head coach, following verification, to have his player(s) wear or use legal and/or required equipment results in a 15-yard unsportsmanlike conduct penalty assessed to the head coach. 


27
Unsportsmanlike conduct Noncontact foul
APPROVED RULINGS
AR 12.9.A 
During the pregame warm-ups, the umpire notices some of the players wearing (a) sweatbands on their biceps or (b) sweatbands on their calves. RULING: In (a) and (b), the uniform adornments must be removed prior to the individual becoming a player.
AR 12.9.B 
Before the game, the umpire notices that a squad member has an eye shield that is dark. The head coach has a letter from a physician indicating that the dark shield is a necessity for the player. RULING: Only eye shields that permit 100 percent light transmission may be worn. A physician's statement cannot supersede the rule.
AR 12.9.C 
During the first period, B1 is detected wearing (a) an earring, a necklace, (c) a ring, (d) a medical alert bracelet or (e) a religious medallion. RULING: In (a), (b) and (c), an unsportsmanlike penalty is assessed to the head coach. B1 must comply with the rules before further participation. In (d), legal if securely attached to the body and visible, if necessary and judged not to present a hazard to the wearer or other players. In (e), the medallion must be taped to the body.


