Prior to a change of possession or when there is no change of possession, no player of A or K shall go out of bounds and return during the down unless blocked out of bounds by an opponent. If a player is blocked out of bounds by an opponent and returns inbounds during the down, he shall return at the first opportunity.
Intentional Out of Bounds 
During the down, no player shall intentionally go out of bounds and return.
Hindering an Opponent 
No replaced player, substitute, coach, trainer or other team personnel shall hinder an opponent, touch the ball, influence the play or otherwise participate.
Illegal Participation 
It is illegal participation when any player, replaced player, substitute coach, trainer or other team personnel enters and participates during a down.
Illegal Participation Continued 
It is illegal participation if an injured player is not replaced for at least one down, unless the halftime or intermission occurs; to have 12 or more players participating at the snap or free kick; to use a player, replaced player or substitute in a substitution or pretended substitution to deceive opponents at or immediately before the snap or free kick; for a player to be lying on the ground to deceive opponents at or immediately before the snap or free kick; for a disqualified player to re-enter the game. A disqualified player is a player barred from further participation in a game. A disqualified player shall be removed.
PENALTY


28
Illegal Participation
Yards assessed from the previous spot.
APPROVED RULINGS
AR 10.5.A 
A number of team substitutes enter the field between downs. The officials do not recognize that one replaced player does not leave the field immediately. When the ball is snapped A12 is in the formation as an extra lineman. RULING: It is illegal participation. If the official's count is not completed before the snap is imminent or if the substitution has not been monitored, it becomes illegal participation at the snap if more than 11 are in the formation. Each team is responsible for substituting legally and for replaced players to leave immediately as required.
AR 10.5.B 
Eligible receiver A1 is running a sideline route when he intentionally steps out of bounds at A's 30-yard line. A1 returns inbounds and (a) catches or touches a forward pass from A2, (b) cannot catch a forward pass because of interference by B3 or (c ) interferes with B3 so he cannot intercept the pass. RULING: Stepping out of bounds means A1 is guilty of illegal participation, a 15-yard penalty enforced from the previous spot. He is not an ineligible illegally downfield. In (a), when he catches or touches the pass, he is also guilty of illegal touching. In (b), the interference by B3 creates a double foul; the penalties cancel and the down is replayed. In (c), A1 is also guilty of offensive pass interference.
AR 10.5.C 
Fourth-and-15 on K's 30-yard line. K1 accidentally steps on the sideline while K2's punt is in the air. K1 returns inbounds at midfield before or (b) after R1 catches the ball and makes the tackle on R's 40. RULING: Since K1 went out of bounds before the change of possession, it is an illegal participation foul in both (a) and (b) when he returns inbounds. In (a), if accepted, the penalty is enforced from the previous spot as the foul occurred during a loose ball play. In (b), since the foul occurred during R1's run, the 15-yard penalty is enforced from the end of R1's run.
AR 10.5.D 
Between second and third downs, A's head coach sends several substitutes into the game. A11, believing that he has been replaced, leaves the field and goes directly to his team's box. Realizing that his position has not been substituted for, A11 enters the field as the ball is being snapped, runs a pass pattern and catches the ball for a first down. RULING: That is illegal participation and is marked off 15 yards from the basic spot.
AR 10.5.E 
Several A substitutes enter the field between downs and go to the team's huddle, but one replaced player does not leave immediately and is not detected. However, when they break the huddle the replaced player runs toward his sideline and leaves the field just before the ball is snapped. RULING: An illegal participation foul if the official judges that A was using a replaced player or substitute in a substitution or pretended substitution to deceive the opponents. If not, it is illegal substitution.
AR 10.5.F 
Following a kickoff return, A1 and A2 enter the field while A3, A4 and A5 move toward the sideline. A5 stops within the nine-yard marks while A3 and A4 continue to the team box. The ball is snapped without a huddle and the quarterback throws a forward pass to A5, who has gone downfield as a wide receiver. RULING: That play is illegal because a pretended substitution is used to deceive the opponents. The penalty of 15 yards for the illegal participation foul will be administered from the previous spot since the foul occurred at the snap.
AR 10.5.G 
With third-and-10 from B's 30-yard line, A1 runs to B's 18-yard line where he is tackled. During the down: substitute A12 comes onto the field and blocks B1. RULING: A12 is guilty of illegal participation.


