The closed- or cupped-hand technique is a legal method of blocking. In that technique, the elbows may be inside or outside the shoulders, the hands must be closed or cupped with the palms not facing the opponent and the forearms are extended no more than 45 degrees from the body. 
Open-Hand Technique 
The open-hand technique is also a legal method of blocking. In that technique, the hand(s) shall be in advance of the elbow, inside the frame of the blocker's body and inside the frame of the opponent's body, except when the opponent turns his back to the blocker during the block or after the blocker is committed to his charge; at or below the shoulders of the blocker and the opponent, except when the opponent squats, ducks or submarines during the block or after the blocker is committed to his charge; and the hands shall be open, when the palm(s) are facing the frame of the opponent or when the forearms are extended beyond the 45 degree angle from the body. 
Unlocked Hands 
A defensive player may also use unlocked hands, hand or arm to ward off an opponent who is blocking him or is attempting to block him. 
Player Simulates Possession 
When a player simulates possession of the ball, reasonable allowance may be made for failure of the defense to discover the deception. 
Runner/Offensive Player Use of Hands /Arms 
A runner may use hands or arms to ward off or push any player. An offensive player may also use his hands or arms during a kick, to ward off an opponent who is attempting to block him. 
Defensive Player Use of Hands/Arms 
When a player on defense uses a hand or arm, the hand must be in advance of the elbow at the time of the contact and at the shoulder or below unless the opponent squats, ducks or submarines. 

APPROVED RULINGS 

AR 7.1.A 
During a scrimmage down, blocker A1 contacts B1 with open hands (a) while his forearms are extended more than 45 degrees from his body and the palms of his hands are toward the defender or (b) in a pushing action when extending his arms beyond 45 degrees from his body. RULING: It is a legal blocking technique in both (a) or (b). 
AR 7.1.B 
As the offensive linemen charge on the snap of the ball, B1 (a) contacts A1 with one hand on his shoulder pad and the other hand on his helmet in fighting off the block or (b) pulls A1's shoulders to one side and charges through in an effort to get to the runner. RULING: The action by B1 in (a) and (b) is legal. 
AR 7.1.C 
A1 and A2 block B1 above the waist at the same time. RULING: Multiple blocks above the waist and from the front are legal. 
AR 7.1.D 
A sets in a formation with the split end A1 outside the defensive end and outside the linebacker. Following the snap, A1 blocks toward the ball on either B1, the defensive end or B2, the linebacker, who is two yards behind the neutral zone. A1 blocks (a) B1 above the waist from the front or (b) B1 with his hands on the side of B1's shoulder pads. RULING: Legal block in (a) and (b). 
AR 7.1.E 
A1 is leading interference on a sweep play and makes initial contact (a) with B1's hands that are above his waist and, thereafter, contact is at B's knees or (b) at B1's waist level, but as he continues contact he does block on B1's legs. RULING: Legal contact in (a) and (b). If the initial contact is with the opponent's body, hands or arms, at the waist or above and in continuation the contact is below the waist, it is a legal block. 
AR 7.1.F 
R1 rushes in to block a punt by K1. K2 attempts to block R1. The direction of K2's block is above the waist; however, just before contact R1 jumps in the air attempting to block the punt and contact by K2 is below R1's waist. RULING: K2's block is legal since the initial direction was legal and the below-the-waist contact was as a result of R1's movement. When R1 jumped in the air, it absolved K2 of responsibility for the low block. This would not be true if R1 changed direction laterally; in which case initial blocking contact must be above the opponent's waist. 
AR 7.1.G 
A1 contacts B1 with a legal block above the waist. The contact causes both players to stop or to bounce backward slightly and A1 immediately continues his charge and blocks B1 below the waist. RULING: Legal block. It is permissible for A1's block to be below the waist if it is part of a continuous block or continuous charge after first contact was above the waist. 
AR 7.1.H 
Runner A1 is hit behind the line. The ball pops free and (a) is in the air or (b) is rolling on the ground, when B1 pushes A2 in the back above the waist to get to the loose ball. RULING: Legal in both (a) and (b). 
AR 7.1.I 
Runner A1 breaks free beyond the neutral zone at midfield. A2 is running between A1 and safety B1, who is gaining fast on both of them. As B1 nears A2 he pushes him from behind above the waist to clear the way to A1. B1 subsequently tackles A1 at B's 10-yard line. RULING: B1's contact on blocker A2 is legal when attempting to get to the runner or to catch or recover a loose ball that he may possess. 


