-yard line markers, constructed of soft, pliable materials, if placed on the ground, should be no closer than 5 yards to the sideline.
Marking Material 
Lines shall be marked with a noncaustic, nontoxic material designed for marking fields such as powdered gypsum, calcium carbonate and liquid aerosol paint. It is recommended that the lines be white. Neither lime, hydrated lime or other chemical derivatives of lime, nor caustic material of any kind may be used for marking football fields.
Yard Lines 
-yard lines shall be marked with a continuous line every 5 yards beginning and ending four inches from each sideline. Game administration may place on the field of play, four inches from each sideline,-yard line extensions that should be 24 inches in length and four inches in width.
Endlines 
Endlines and sidelines shall be continuous lines at least four inches wide. All other field dimension lines should be marked four inches in width.
Restraining Line Rules 
A restraining line is a line placed around the outside of the field. No person, including but not limited to, spectators, game administrators or members of the media, shall be allowed within the restraining line. A maximum of three coaches may be in the restricted area. No player, non- player or coach shall be in the restricted area when the ball is live.

Penalty

First offense − warning.


7
Dead ball foul, touchback (move side to side)


29
Sideline interference (face press box)
Second offense


7
Dead ball foul, touchback (move side to side)


29
Sideline interference (face press box)
Each subsequent offence


7
Dead ball foul, touchback (move side to side)


29
Sideline interference (face press box)


27
Unsportsmanlike conduct nonconduct foul
Restraining Line Markings 
A four-inch-wide restraining line shall be placed around the outside of the field, at least two yards from the sidelines and end lines, as an extension of the line limiting the team box area, except in stadiums where the total playing enclosure does not permit. It is recommended that the restraining line be marked by placing 12-inch long lines, separated by 24-inch intervals. Game administration may place four-inch wide and 12-inch long bisecting marks along the restraining line at each 5-yard line between the goal lines.
Hash Marks 
A series of hash marks should be 24 inches in length and four inches in width and shall be located 53 feet, four inches from and parallel with each sideline dividing the field of play longitudinally in thirds. The hash marks shall be marked so that each 5-yard marker bisects the hash mark. Game administration may place on the field of play, at the hash marks, yard line extensions that should be 24 inches in length and four inches in width. It is permissible to use college or professional fields with hash marks marked at the distance specified by their respective codes.
Yard Marks 
Nine-yard marks, 12 inches in length and four inches in width, shall be located nine yards from each sideline. The nine-yard marks shall be marked so that at least each successive 10-yard marker bisects the nine-yard marks. The marks shall not be required if the field of play is visibly numbered. If on-the-field numbers are used, the tops of those numbers shall be nine yards from the sideline, should be six feet in height and four feet in width and may include directional arrows next to the yard line numbers indicating the direction toward the nearest goal line.
Team Boxes 
Team boxes shall be marked on each side of the field outside the coaches' area between the 25-yard lines for use of coaches, substitutes, trainers, etc., affiliated with the team. The coaches' area is a minimum of a two-yard belt between the front of the team box and the sideline. It is permissible for both team boxes to be on the same side of the field, provided each team box is marked between respective 20- and 45-yard lines. It is recommended goal lines and the team box boundaries be marked in a color that contrasts with other field markings and the area between the sidelines and the team box boundaries be solid white or marked with diagonal lines.
Decorative Markings 
Decorative markings in the end zones shall be no closer than two feet to the boundary and the goal lines. Advertising and/or commercial markings on the field of play are prohibited.
Measurements 
Measurements shall be from the inside edges of the boundary marks, such marks being out of bounds.
Goal Line Mark 
Each goal line mark shall be entirely in its end zone so the edge toward the field of play and its vertical plane is the actual goal line. The goal line shall extend from sideline to sideline.
Center Field Line 
A line, four inches wide and a minimum of 24 inches in length, shall be centered in the field of play, three yards from each goal line.


