No defensive player may be lined up over the snapper and on the line of scrimmage if there is no player in position to take a hand-to-hand snap. The restriction is not in effect if an offensive player shifts to a position to take a hand-to-hand snap.
PENALTY
For the first violation by a team, the ball remains dead and a warning is issued.


21
Delay of game
Second violation

Third and subsequent violations


27
Unsportsmanlike conduct noncontact foul
APPROVED RULINGS
AR 4.4.A: (Non-junior division) 
B1 is head-up on snapper A2. A3 is (a) in position to take a hand-to-hand snap from A2 or (b) is 5 yards deep in the backfield. RULING: In (a), there is no foul. There is no restriction on team B because A3 was in position to take a hand-to-hand snap. In (b), the official should blow his whistle and prevent the snap. If it is team B's first violation, a team warning is issued. If it is the second violation, a 5-yard penalty is assessed. Subsequent violations result in a 15-yard penalty.
AR 4.4.B: (Non-junior division) 
A1 is lined up 5 yards in his backfield. B2 is lined up in the gap between snapper A3 and guard A4. A1 legally shifts to a position to take a hand-to-hand snap, so B2 moves head-up on A3. A1 then legally moves back to his original position. RULING: Once A1 moves to a position to take a hand-to-hand snap, the restriction on team B placing a player head-up on the snapper is eliminated for that play. However, B2 is not excused for actions that could still be ruled unnecessary roughness once the ball is snapped.
AR 4.4.C: (Non-junior division) 
A1 is in position to take a hand-to-hand snap and B2 is head-up on snapper A3. A1 legally shifts to a position 5 yards behind the line. RULING: Because A1 was in a position to take a hand-to-hand snap, the restriction on team B placing a player head-up on the snapper is eliminated for that play. However, B2 is not excused for actions that could still be ruled unnecessary roughness once the ball is snapped.
AR 4.4.D: (Junior division) 
B1 is head-up on snapper A2. A3 is (a) in position to take a hand-to-hand snap from A2 or (b) is 5 yards deep in the backfield. RULING: A team B player lined up over the snapper must be at least 5 yards off his line regardless of A's formation. The official should blow his whistle and prevent the snap. If it is team B's first violation, a team warning is issued. If it is the second violation, a 5-yard penalty is assessed. Subsequent violations result in a 15-yard penalty.


