No player, coach, substitute, athletic trainer or other team attendant shall act in an unsportsmanlike manner once the officials assume authority for the contest. Examples are, but not limited to, baiting or taunting acts or words or insignia worn that engenders ill will; using profanity, insulting or vulgar language or gestures; any delayed, excessive or prolonged act by that a player or coach attempts to focus attention upon himself; attempting to influence a decision by an official; disrespectfully addressing an official; indicating objections to an official's decision; using any illegal communication equipment; holding an unauthorized conference; the failure of a team to be ready to start either half; failure of the head coach, following verification, to have his player(s) wear or use legal and/or required equipment; being on the field except as a substitute or replaced player; using tobacco or smokeless tobacco; a substitute who leaves the team box during a fight; using disconcerting acts or words prior to the snap in an attempt to interfere with A's signals or movements; intentionally kicking at the ball, other than during a legal kick; leaving the field between downs to gain an advantage unless replaced or unless with permission of an official; refusing to comply with an official's request
Ball becomes dead in possession of a player 
When the ball becomes dead in possession of a player, he shall not intentionally kick the ball, spike the ball into the ground, throw the ball high into the air or from the field of play or intentionally fail to place the ball on the ground or immediately return it to a nearby official.
Taunting 
Any form of taunting that is intended or designed to embarrass, ridicule or demean others under any circumstances including on the basis of race, religion, gender or national origin is to be penalized.
Nonplayers and coaches 
A nonplayer shall not be outside his team box unless to become a player or to return as a replaced player. A maximum of three coaches may be in the coaches' area.
PENALTY


27
Nonplayer and Unsportsmanlike Fouls
A single flagrant act may result in disqualification. Two unsportsmanlike fouls by the same player or nonplayer results in disqualification.


47
Nonplayer and Unsportsmanlike Fouls
APPROVED RULINGS
AR 10.1.A 
During a run by A1 on first down from A's 10 to midfield, A2 clips B1 at A's 20 and (a) B1 swears at A2 or (b) A3 taunts B2. RULING: The unsportsmanlike foul in (a) or (b) is not paired with any other foul to create a double or multiple foul. Following the acceptance of the penalty for the clip by A2, the unsportsmanlike fouls will be administered from A's 10, that is the succeeding spot. In (a), it will be A's ball first down and 10 from its own 25- yard line. In (b), it will be A's ball first and 15 from A's 5-yard line.
AR 10.1.B 
On third-and-10 from A's 40-yard line, all team A players are set. While quarterback A1 is calling signals, defensive back B1, starting from a position eight yards behind his line of scrimmage, runs toward the neutral zone. B1 stops directly in front of tackle A4. In response to B1's charge, A4 (a) does not move or (b) flinches. RULING: No foul in (a). In (b), A4 is guilty of a dead-ball foul for false start. If in the official's judgment the action by B1 was for the purpose of disconcerting or hindering A, it is an unsportsmanlike conduct foul. In that case, the official should sound the whistle before the snap.
AR 10.1.C 
In the process of scoring a touchdown, A1 (a) holds and waves the ball overhead the last 10 yards, (b) throws the ball into the bleachers, (c) kicks the ball from the field, (d) spikes the ball to the ground with force, (d) does a series of back flips or (e) runs toward his team box, then stops and struts back and forth in front of the fans. RULING: Unsportsmanlike conduct in all cases. The 15-yard penalty is assessed on the try.
AR 10.1.D 
After crossing the goal line for a touchdown, A1 (a) momentarily raises the ball overhead but then quickly drops it to the ground, (b) jumps into the arms of teammate A2 for a hug or (c) has a group hug with several teammates. RULING: No foul in (a), (b) or (c).
AR 10.1.E 
B1 calls defensive signals loudly (a) before A takes its set position, (b) during the time A1 is giving his cadence count or (c) while A1 is using audibles. RULING: Legal in (a). In (b) and (c), if in the official's judgment the action by B1 was for the purpose of disconcerting or hindering A, it is an unsportsmanlike conduct foul. In that case, the official should sound his whistle before the snap.
AR 10.1.F 
After A1 carries the ball into B's end zone, he is knocked down by B1 clearly after the ball is dead. RULING: B1's dead-ball contact foul will be penalized on the try to the 11/2-yard line. If deemed flagrant, B1 could be disqualified.
AR 10.1.G 
Following the second 15-yard unsportsmanlike foul by the coach of B, the referee notifies him that he may no longer remain in the vicinity of the playing field and that he may not have any contact with his players, either direct or indirect, throughout the remainder of the game including halftime. The coach departs to the (a) stands, (b) press box or (c) the team locker room. RULING: Illegal in (a) and (b). Legal in (c). In (c), if the coach has been disqualified in the first half and has gone to the locker room, he must leave the locker room if the team comes to the locker room.
AR 10.1.H 
In the first half, the head coach of A has been penalized (a) 5 yards or (b) 15 yards for being outside the box and on the field of play. In the third period the coach is again in violation. RULING: In both (a) and (b), another 15-yard unsportsmanlike penalty is assessed. In (b) the coach must be disqualified since he has now committed his second 15-yard unsportsmanlike foul. The initial 5-yard penalty in (a) for sideline interference is not counted as one of the two fouls leading to disqualification.
AR 10.1.I 
In the first period, A is warned and then later penalized 5 yards for having more than three coaches in the two-yard belt between the sideline and the team box. The same infraction occurs again in the third period. RULING: The third and subsequent infractions result in 15-yard penalties. If the individual offender cannot be determined, the fouls are all charged to the head coach. The second 15-yard unsportsmanlike foul is considered flagrant and the head coach must be removed from the stadium area. If an individual assistant coach is the offender, he - not the head coach - is charged with the foul.
AR 10.1.J 
A1 is deaf. A's coach requests the referee to (a) permit a signer to go to the team huddle to relay the play-call to the deaf player or (b) permit the signer to move up and down the sideline without penalty. RULING: Not permitted in (a) or (b). However, a reasonable accommodation is to permit the signer to occupy the coaching box but not be counted as one of the three allowable coaches.


