The kicker or place kick holder of a free kick may not be blocked until after a free kick, he has advanced five yards beyond his free-kick line or the kick has touched the ground or any other player. 
Scrimmage Kick or Place Kick Holder 
A defensive player shall not block, tackle or charge into the kicker of a scrimmage kick or the place kick holder, other than when contact is unavoidable because it is not reasonably certain that a kick will be made; the defense touches the kick near the kicker and contact is unavoidable; contact is slight and is partially caused by movement of the kicker or contact is caused by R being blocked into the kicker by K. 

PENALTY 



38
Personal foul


30
Running into or Roughing kicker or holder 
First down from the previous spot.
Disqualification also if any foul is flagrant.


47
Disqualification 

APPROVED RULINGS 

AR 7.15.A 
K1 punts and R1 touches and partially blocks the kick. R2 does not touch the ball but firmly contacts K1. RULING: If R1 partially blocked the kick near the kicker/holder and R2 was near the kicker/holder at the time R1 touched the ball and R2 had already started his charge at the time the kick was touched, there would be no foul as a result of the contact by R2, unless it was unnecessarily rough. 
AR 7.15.B 
K1 in scrimmage-kick formation, muffs the snap but quickly recovers and begins to run. However, K1 changes his mind and (a) punts on the run or (b) abruptly stops and punts. R1 is unable to stop his charge and forcibly contacts K1. R1 did not touch the kick. RULING: No foul in either (a) or (b) because it was not reasonably certain K1 was going to punt the ball. It is always roughing the kicker if the contact could have been avoided regardless of whether or not it was apparent a kick would be made. Only unavoidable contact is ignored if it is not reasonably certain a kick will be made. 
AR 7.15.C 
R1, in an effort to block a place kick, charges through blocker K1 and without touching the ball, charges into the kicker/holder. RULING: The official must determine whether R1's charge would have taken him into the kicker/holder, regardless of the contact by the blocker. It is only when K1's block alters the course of R1's path and thus causes the contact with the kicker/holder that R1's contact is ignored and does not result in a foul. 
AR 7.15.D 
K10, the place kick holder, is contacted forcibly by R9, clearly after the kick is away. RULING: Roughing the kicker/holder is a personal foul. The penalty would be 15 yards and an automatic first down, if accepted. 
AR 7.15.E 
As R2 rushes punter K11 he (a) brushes K11 who maintains his balance; (b) bumps K11 causing him to fall backward or (c) runs over K11, knocking him to the ground. RULING: In (a), no penalty. It is roughing the kicker in (b) and (c). The 15-yard penalty includes an automatic first down. 
AR 7.15.F 
A11 is in scrimmage kick formation. After taking the snap and attempting to kick the ball, he misjudges the distance and misses the ball. A11 is then contacted by B1 before he can regain his balance. B2 recovers the ball. RULING: Unless B1's contact is viewed as unnecessary roughness, there is no foul as A11 never became a kicker. 


