A safety results in two points being awarded to the opponent.
Safety with a Runner 
It is a safety when a runner carries the ball from the field of play to or across his own goal line and it becomes dead there in his team's possession; a player who is either in the field of play or in his end zone forces a loose ball from the field of play to or across his goal line by his pass, fumble, snap or by a new force to a grounded loose ball with his muff or bat or illegal kick (when the penalty is declined), provided the ball becomes dead there in his team's possession (including when the ball is declared dead with no player in possession) or the ball is out of bounds when it becomes dead on or behind their goal line (does not apply to a legal forward pass that becomes incomplete); a player on offense commits any foul for that the penalty is accepted and enforcement is from a spot in his end zone; or a player throws an illegal forward pass (including intentional grounding) from his end zone and the penalty is declined in a situation that leaves him in possession at the spot of the illegal pass and with the ball having been forced into the end zone by the passing team.
Safety on a Try 
A safety on a try results in one point being awarded to A.
SAFETY: APPROVED RULINGS
AR 8.5.A 
A1 receives the snap behind his own goal line. A1 advances but is tackled and the ball becomes dead with its foremost point in the field of play, but part of the ball is in the end zone. RULING: Safety. To avoid a safety, the ball must be advanced completely out of the end zone with no part of it touching the goal line.
AR 8.5.B 
It is first down and 10 on A's 12. A fumble by A1 is still rolling slowly on A's 4-yard line. During an attempt to recover the ball, A2 pushes B1 into the ball. That provides new force, causing the ball to roll across the goal line. It is recovered by (a) A3, who is downed there or (b) A4, who advances to A's 15. RULING: Safety in (a). A2 provided a new force when he pushed B1 into the ball, causing the ball to go across his goal line. In (b), it is A's ball on the 15 and the next down is second-and-7.
AR 8.5.C 
Fourth-and-15 for A from its own 8-yard line. A1 is in punt formation and receives the snap in his end zone but fumbles the ball. A1 quickly recovers and throws a forward pass to ineligible A2, who is also in the end zone. A2 muffs the ball and it falls incomplete. RULING: If B accepts the penalty for A2's illegal touching, it results in a safety. If B declines the penalty for the foul by A2, the result is B's ball first-and-goal from A's 8-yard line.
AR 8.5.D 
A leads 16-7 with little time remaining in the fourth period. A is deep in its own territory. A1 goes back to pass from his own end zone. A2 holds B1. A1's pass is intercepted and returned for a touchdown. RULING: The penalty for the holding foul may be accepted (resulting in a safety) or declined (resulting in a touchdown).
AR 8.5.E 
A's ball second-and-10 from its own 3-yard line. A2 muffs the handoff and the ball rolls into A's end zone. A1 picks up the ball and is immediately tackled by B3 in the end zone. B3 grasped A1 by the facemask/ chin strap/helmet opening in making the tackle. RULING: If A declines the penalty, the play would result in a safety. If the penalty is accepted, it will be enforced from the goal line, making it First-and-10 for A from its 15-yard line.
AR 8.5.F 
A's ball second-and-11 from its own 9-yard line. A2 fumbles the ball on his own 5-yard line and the ball rolls into the end zone. A1 recovers the ball in the end zone and is downed there, but B3 held A3 while the ball was loose. RULING: A undoubtedly will accept the penalty, because to decline would result in a safety. Because the foul occurred during a loose-ball play, the previous spot will be the enforcement spot. The result is second-and-1 for A from its own 19-yard line.
AR 8.5.G 
During the last timed down of the first half, A1 retreats into his own end zone to attempt a pass, but he is downed there. During the down there is holding in the end zone by (a) A2 or (b) B1. RULING: In (a), it is a safety and B would score two points whether the penalty is accepted or declined since the run ended in the end zone and the foul was in the end zone. If B accepts the penalty, the period is extended with an untimed down and A must free kick to B. In (b), if the penalty is accepted it will be enforced from the goal line and the period is extended.
AR 8.5.H 
B1 leaps in the air over his 2-yard line and has A's pass in his grasp. He returns to the ground in his end zone inbounds, where he is downed. RULING: B1's interception was not completed until he returned to the ground inbounds. He now possesses a live ball in his own end zone and may attempt to run it out or down it in the end zone for a touchback. Momentum is not involved.


