A snap is a backward pass. A snap is the legal act of passing or handing the ball backward from its position on the ground. The snap begins when the snapper first moves the ball legally other than in adjustment. In a snap, the movement must be a quick and continuous backward motion of the ball during that the ball immediately leaves the hand(s) of the snapper and touches a back or the ground before it touches an A lineman. The snap ends when the ball touches the ground or any player.
Scrimmage Down 
A scrimmage down must start with a legal snap. An illegal snap causes the ball to remain dead.
Snapper 
A snapper is the player who is facing his opponent's goal line with his shoulders approximately parallel thereto and who snaps the ball. The snapper may be over the ball but his feet must be behind the neutral zone and no part of his person, other than a hand(s) on the ball, may be beyond the foremost point of the ball. The snapper may lift the ball for lateral rotation but may not rotate end-for-end or change the location or fail to keep the long axis of the ball at right angles to the line of scrimmage.
Snapper Movements 
Following the ready-for-play and after touching the ball, the snapper shall not remove both hands from the ball; make any movement that simulates a snap; fail to clearly pause before the snap; or following adjustment, lift or move the ball other than in a legal snap.
PENALTY


7
Dead ball foul, touchback (move side to side)


19
False Start / Illegal Formation 
APPROVED RULING
AR 4.2.A 
A's linemen take their positions and snapper A1 has made preliminary adjustments. Prior to the snap A1 (a) tilts the ball to an angle of 90 degrees, (b) lifts the ball and pushes it forward in order to make a deep snap, (c) rotates the ball end for end or (d) removes both hands. RULING: Legal in (a). It is a snap infraction in (b), (c) and (d). The covering official will sound his whistle immediately, signifying the ball remains dead. A snap infraction is a dead-ball foul and the penalty of 5 yards is administered from the succeeding spot.


