If a player or nonplayer or person(s) not subject to the rules hinders play by an unfair act that has no specific rule coverage; either team repeatedly commits fouls that halve the distance to the goal line or either team commits any act that, in the opinion of the referee, tends to make a travesty of the game, the referee enforces any penalty he considers equitable, including the award of a score.
Hiding the Ball 
No player shall hide the ball under a jersey. No player shall use a kicking tee that is not made of pliable material or that elevates the lowest point of the ball more than two inches above the ground.
Fumblerooski 
Any planned loose ball play ("fumblerooski") is illegal.
PENALTY


27
Unfair Acts
APPROVED RULINGS
AR 10.6.A 
A is trailing by five points and has no timeouts left when the play ends on B's 3-yard line. The referee does not feel there is any illegal delay in unpiling and that time will definitely expire before the ball is ready and A gets in position to snap. Quarterback A1 reaches into the pile of players and grabs the ball. He then throws the ball to midfield. RULING: Even if the referee imposes a 15-yard penalty for an unsportsmanlike act, A has accomplished its goal - the clock is stopped and it can get in position and be ready to run a play even though the clock will start on the ready-for- play signal. That situation illustrates when it is appropriate for the referee to invoke the unfair-act rule and handle the situation in any way that he feels is equitable. In that specific situation the referee should wind the clock and end the game without giving A an opportunity to put the ball in play.
AR 10.6.B 
From a field goal formation, potential kicker K1 yells, "Where's the tee?" K2 replies, "I'll go get it" and goes legally in motion toward his team's sideline. Ball is snapped to K1, who throws a touchdown pass to K2. RULING: Unsportsmanlike conduct prior to snap. The ball should be declared dead and the foul enforced as a dead-ball foul.
AR 10.6.C 
Fourth-and-4 at team B's 30-yard line. Following the third-down play, team A's players remain on the field apparently waiting for the coach to make a decision about the next play. Before the play clock expires, all 11 team A players jog toward the sideline as team A substitutes run onto the field and settle into a formation. A11, who participated in the third-down play, jogs toward the sideline with his teammates. He does not leave the field but, undetected by the defense, stands behind the line of scrimmage within a few yards of team A's sideline. At the snap, A11 runs downfield near the sideline and catches a legal forward pass in team B's end zone. RULING: Live-ball foul by team A for an unfair act. It is illegal to use the substitution process to deceive the opponent. The 15-yard penalty is enforced from the previous spot. Team A will have Fourth-and-19 at team B's 45-yard line.
AR 10.6.D 
Third-and-1 on team A's 40-yard line. A1 takes the snap, steps back one stride and places the ball on the ground behind guard A2 at team A's 37-yard line. Right tackle A3, who has turned to face his goal line, then loops behind the line, grabs the ball and runs for a touchdown. RULING: Illegal because it is a planned loose ball play involving a lineman. The penalty is marked off 5 yards from the previous spot. It will be third- and-6 on team A's 35-yard line.


