A player, replaced player or a substitute who has been unable to complete the substitution is required to leave the field at the side on that his team box is located and go directly to his team box.
During the same dead-ball interval, no substitute shall become a player and then withdraw and no player shall withdraw and re-enter as a substitute unless a penalty is accepted, a dead-ball foul occurs, there is a charged timeout or the period ends.
PENALTY


7
Dead ball foul, Touchback (move side to side)


22
Substitution infraction
APPROVED RULINGS
AR 10.3.A 
Substitutes A12 and B12 properly enter the game between downs. The replaced player of A remains in the team huddle while the replaced B player leaves the field immediately. RULING: In that situation, A is charged with a 5-yard dead-ball foul for an illegal substitution because the replaced player of A did not leave as required.
AR 10.3.B 
B11 mistakenly believes he is his team's 12th player and leaves the field before the snap on his opponent's sideline. RULING: B11 has committed illegal substitution by leaving on the opponent's sideline.
AR 10.3.C 
It is First-and-10 on B's 12-yard line. Substitute B12 comes onto the field to replace B2 and communicates with him. Prior to the ball becoming live (a) B2 leaves the field of play through the end zone and across B's sideline without crossing the end line and continues toward his team box, (b) B12, seeing that he will be unable to replace B2 before the ball is snapped, returns to his team box, (c) B2, seeing that he will not be able to reach the sideline before the ball is snapped, leaves the field through the end zone and remains to observe the play or (d) B12 becomes confused and withdraws through the end zone across the end line and goes around the field to return to B's team box. RULING: In (a), the act is legal. In (b), (c) and (d), it is a nonplayer foul for illegal substitution. A player, replaced player or substitute is required to go directly to his team box. A substitute may not enter and withdraw in the same dead-ball interval.


