It is a double foul if both teams commit fouls, other than unsportsmanlike or nonplayer, during the same live-ball period in which:
	There is no change of team possession, unless all fouls committed by R are post-scrimmage kick fouls; or
	There is a change of team possession and the team in possession at the end of the down fouls prior to final change of possession unless all fouls committed by R are post-scrimmage kick fouls; or
	There is a change of possession and the team in final possession accepts the penalty for its opponent's foul at any time during the down.
Captains Not Consulted 
In case of a double foul, the captains are not consulted since the penalties offset. If there is a double foul, there is no loss of distance.
Teams Foul- no Post-Scrimmage Kick 
If each team fouls during a down in which there is a change of team possession and the play does not have a post-scrimmage kick foul, the team last gaining possession has two options:
Option 1. Decline the penalty for the opponent's foul other than a nonplayer or unsportsmanlike foul. In that case, the team last gaining possession may retain the ball, but the team that lost possession may accept the penalty for the opponent's foul.
Option 2. Accept the penalty for the opponent's foul other than a nonplayer or unsportsmanlike foul. In that case, the penalties cancel and the down is replayed from the previous spot.
Teams Foul- With Post-Scrimmage Kick 
If each team fouls during a down in which there is a change of team possession and R's penalty has post-scrimmage kick enforcement, R has two options:
Option 1. Decline the penalty for K's foul other than a nonplayer or unsportsmanlike foul. In that case, R may retain the ball, but K may accept the penalty for R's foul.
Option 2. Accept the penalty for K's foul other than a nonplayer or unsportsmanlike foul. In that case, the penalties cancel and the down is replayed from the previous spot.
Multiple Live-Ball Fouls 
When two or more live-ball fouls (other than nonplayer or unsportsmanlike) are committed during the same down by the same team (multiple fouls), only one penalty may be enforced. The offended captain may choose that one shall be administered or the captain may decline all penalties. When a team commits a nonplayer or unsportsmanlike foul during that same down, it is administered from the succeeding spot as established by the acceptance or declination of the penalty for the other foul.
Dead-Ball Fouls 
Penalties for dead-ball fouls are administered separately and in the order of their occurrence. A dead-ball foul is not coupled with a live-ball foul or another dead-ball foul to create a double or multiple foul.
Foul During a Try 
A foul during a try is not paired with a dead-ball foul to create a double or multiple foul.
APPROVED RULINGS
AR 9.11.A 
During a forward-pass play in which the ball crosses the neutral zone, ineligible A1 is illegally downfield and B2 is flagged for interfering with eligible receiver A3. RULING: The interference foul by B2 and A1's foul for being downfield combine to make a double foul and the down will be replayed.
AR 9.11.B 
B2 is flagged for pass interference. Thereafter, a fumble by A1 is recovered by B2 who is downed after advancing nine yards. While the ball was loose during the fumble, B3 held A3. RULING: Double foul. Both fouls occurred before the change of team possession. The penalties cancel and the down shall be replayed.
AR 9.11.C 
First and 20 for A from its own 10-yard line. A1's legal forward pass is complete to A2, who advances to A's 20-yard line. Before the pass is thrown, B3 is flagged for holding. After the pass, B4 is flagged for roughing the passer. RULING: That is a multiple foul and A may accept either penalty or decline both and take the results of the play. If either penalty is accepted, it is enforced from the previous spot. The roughing penalty is 15 yards and includes a first down for A. The holding penalty is 10 yards and does not included a first down.


