A field goal is three points.
Scoring a Field Goal 
To score a field goal, the attempt shall be a place kick or a drop kick from scrimmage or from a free kick following a fair catch or an awarded fair catch. The kick shall not touch any player of K beyond the expanded neutral zone or the ground before passing through the goal. The kick shall pass between the vertical uprights or the inside of the uprights extended and above the crossbar of the opponent's goal.
Kick touches an Upright/Crossbar/R player 
If a scoring attempt kick touches an upright or crossbar or an R player in the end zone and caroms through the goal, the touching is ignored and the attempt is successful.
Ball Remains Live 
The ball remains live if, at the snap, a place kick holder with his knee(s) on the ground and with a teammate in kicking position catches or recovers the snap while his knee(s) is on the ground and places the ball for a kick or if he rises to advance, hand, kick or pass; or rises and catches or recovers an errant snap and immediately returns his knee(s) to the ground and places the ball for a kick or again rises to advance, hand, kick or pass.
APPROVED RULINGS
AR 8.3.A 
The field-goal attempt (a) goes directly over an upright or (b) is clearly over the crossbar between the uprights. In (a) and (b), the ball is blown back by the wind so that it drops into B's end zone. RULING: In (a), it is an unsuccessful attempt because the ball did not penetrate the plane of the goal between the inside of the uprights extended. It is a legal field goal in and it doesn't matter if the ball comes back above or below the crossbar.
AR 8.3.B 
K has the ball on R's 40-yard line for a free kick. The ball is in that position following (a) a fair catch, (b) an awarded fair catch or (c) a safety followed by a couple of dead-ball penalties. In all three cases, K1 place kicks the ball between the uprights and over the crossbar. RULING: Field goal in (a) and (b) and touchback in (c).
AR 8.3.C 
From a field goal formation, potential kicker K1 yells, "Where's the tee?" K2 replies, "I'll go get it" and goes legally in motion toward his team's sideline. Ball is snapped to K1, who throws a touchdown pass to K2. RULING: Unsportsmanlike conduct prior to snap. The ball should be declared dead and the foul enforced as a dead-ball foul. Football has been and always will be a game of deception and trickery involving multiple shifts, unusual formations and creative plays. However, actions or verbiage designed to confuse the defense into believing there is problem and a snap isn't imminent, is beyond the scope of sportsmanship and is illegal.


