Pass interference restrictions only apply beyond the neutral zone and only if the legal forward pass, untouched by B in or behind the neutral zone, crosses the neutral zone.
Restriction until Opposing Player Touches Ball 
Pass interference restrictions are in effect for all A players until the ball is touched by B or the pass is incomplete.
Ineligible Players 
Ineligible A players may not touch the pass but can use hands or arms in a legal block to ward off an opponent.
Forward-Pass Interference 
It is forward-pass interference if any player of A who is beyond the neutral zone interferes with an eligible opponent's opportunity to move toward, catch or bat the pass; or if any A player hinders an opponent's vision without making an attempt to catch, intercept or bat the ball, even though no contact was made.
Not Forward-Pass Interference 
It is not forward-pass interference if unavoidable contact occurs when two or more eligibles are making a simultaneous, bona fide attempt to move toward, catch or bat the pass.
PENALTY


33
Forward pass interference Kick catching interference
If the interference is intentional, A is penalized an additional 15 yards.


27
Unsportsmanlike conduct Noncontact foul
APPROVED RULINGS
AR 5.11.A 
A1 goes downfield and pushes off B2 (pushes him away from A1 to help him make his cut), cuts toward the sideline and catches A3's pass. A1;s push occurred prior to B4 tipping the pass. RULING: Pass interference on A1. Restrictions for A begin at the snap.
AR 5.11.B 
Eligible receiver A1 blocks an opponent 10 yards downfield while the pass is in flight. The pass is completed to A2, who is (a) beyond or behind the neutral zone when he catches the ball. RULING: It is a foul for pass interference in (a) and a legal block in (b).
AR 5.11.C 
B3 gets in the path of receiver A4 without making contact. B3's presence results in A4 initiating contact in an effort to reach the ball. RULING: A foul by A4 for offensive pass interference.
AR 5.11.D 
Before A1 throws a pass beyond the neutral zone, A2 contacts lineman B1 on his line and drives him back four yards. RULING: Offensive pass interference by A2 because he has driven B1 beyond the expanded neutral zone.


