Pass interference restrictions on a legal forward pass begin for B when the ball leaves the passer's hand. Pass interference restrictions are in effect for all B players until the ball is touched or the pass is incomplete.
Forward-Pass Interference 
It is forward-pass interference if any player of B who is beyond the neutral zone interferes with an eligible opponent's opportunity to move toward, catch or bat the pass; or if any B player hinders an opponent's vision without making an attempt to catch, intercept or bat the ball, even though no contact was made.
Not Forward-Pass Interference 
It is not forward-pass interference if unavoidable contact occurs when two or more eligibles are making a simultaneous, bona fide attempt to move toward, catch or bat the pass; or if contact by B is obviously away from the direction of the pass.
PENALTY


33
Forward pass interference Kick catching interference


8
First down
Plus automatic first down

If the interference is intentional, B is penalized an additional 15 yards.



27
Unsportsmanlike conduct Nonconduct foul
APPROVED RULINGS
AR 5.12.A 
B3 gets in the path of a receiver, A4, without making contact. B3's presence results in A4 slowing down to avoid contact. RULING: No foul.
AR 5.12.B 
While a legal forward pass is in flight (a) B1 interferes with eligible A1 and then there is an inadvertent whistle or (b) a whistle is inadvertently sounded after that B2 contacts A2 while the ball is still in flight. RULING: In (a), if the captain accepts the penalty for a foul that occurred prior to the inadvertent whistle, the whistle is disregarded. It will be a new series for A, 15 yards in advance of the previous spot. In (b), the contact by B2 occurred during a dead-ball period and unless it is a personal foul, will be ignored. Because the whistle was inadvertently sounded while a legal forward pass was in flight, the down shall be replayed.
AR 5.12.C 
Quarterback A1 drops back and throws a forward pass toward the sideline to A2, who is behind the neutral zone. B1 blocks A2 behind the line prior to A2 touching the ball. RULING: Legal block in (a) since interference restrictions for B do not apply to a forward pass that does not cross the neutral zone.
AR 5.12.D 
On second down, quarterback A1 drops back and throws a forward pass to A2, who is behind the neutral zone. A2 throws a backward pass to A1. A1 then throws the ball forward beyond the neutral zone to A3. B1 blocks A3 away from the ball and intercepts A1's pass. RULING: Legal contact by B1 and an illegal forward pass by A1. Pass interference restrictions for B players ended when the first pass by A1 was touched. B will likely decline the foul and keep the ball. If the foul for illegal forward pass is accepted, it is 5 yards, but A retains the ball.
AR 5.12.E 
Quarterback A1 drops back 15 yards and throws a legal forward pass intended for A2, who is 5 yards behind the neutral zone. Before the pass reaches A2, B1 (a) tackles A2 or (b) engages A2 above the waist from the front. RULING: In (a), tackling A2 is a foul, as it is a form of holding. Defensive players are prohibited from grasping an opponent other than the runner. In (b), the contact by B1 is not pass interference because A2 is behind the line.
AR 5.12.F 
A1 is in a position to catch a forward pass beyond the neutral zone. An opponent, who is in the vicinity, turns his back to the ball. The opponent directs his attention to A1 and waves his arms to block the vision of the potential receiver or interceptor. RULING: Hindering an opponent's vision without making an attempt to catch, intercept or bat the ball is pass interference even though no contact was made.
AR 5.12.G 
A11 is running a deep post pattern and B11 (a) contacts A11 knocking him off his intended path or (b) grabs A11's jersey. In both situations, the pass has already crossed the neutral zone and the pass is clearly away from the intended receiver. RULING: In (a) there is no foul for pass interference and (b) there is a foul for illegal holding.


