Each player shall properly wear the mandatory equipment while the ball is live. Each player shall participate while wearing legal and properly fitted equipment, that shall be professionally manufactured and not altered to decrease protection.
Equipment Verification 
Prior to the start of the game, the head coach shall be responsible for verifying to the referee and umpire that all of his players are legally equipped and in compliance with the rules. Any questions regarding legality of a player's equipment shall be resolved by the umpire.
Correcting Missing/Illegal Equipment 
When any required player equipment is missing or when illegal equipment is found, correction shall be made before participation. An official's timeout shall be declared to permit prompt repair of equipment that becomes illegal or defective through use.
Failure to Use Required Equipment 
Failure of the head coach, following verification, to have his player(s) wear or use legal and/or required equipment results in a penalty for unsportsmanlike conduct charged to the head coach.
Helmet and Facemask 
All players shall wear helmets that carry a warning label regarding the risk of injury and a manufacturer's or reconditioner's certification indicating satisfaction of NOCSAE (National Operating Committee on Standards for Athletic Equipment) test standard at the time of manufacture. All such reconditioned helmets shall show recertification to indicate satisfaction with the NOCSAE test standard. The coach's pregame verification to the referee and umpire that all players are properly equipped in compliance with the rules includes the exterior warning label. The facemask shall have a surface covered with resilient material designed to prevent chipping, burrs or abrasiveness and be properly secured to the helmet as designed by the manufacturer. The helmet shall be secured by a properly fastened chin strap with at least four attachment points.
If a player's helmet comes completely off through play, other than as the direct result of a foul by an opponent, the player must leave the game for the next down. The game clock will stop at the end of the down. A team timeout is not permitted to allow the player to remain in the game. The player must leave the game for one

APPROVED RULINGS

AR 12.10.A : B10 has a chin strap with (a) two or (b) four attachment points. The umpire notices that not all attachment points are secured. RULING: That is a foul in both situations. All available attachment points must be secured and all helmets must be secured with a four-attachment points system.
AR 12.10.B : Flanker A1 is detected with a chin strap hanging down (a) while going downfield in his pass pattern, (b) after being blocked by B1 downfield or (c) after catching a pass and being hit by B1, he is continuing downfield. RULING: No foul in (a), (b) and (c) unless the covering official observes A1 unsnapping the strap. That penalty would be enforced from the succeeding spot.
Jerseys and Pants 
A jersey with clearly visible and legible Arabic numbers 1-99 inclusive on the front and back that are long enough to reach the top of the pants and shall be tucked in if longer.
Each player shall be numbered 1 through 99 inclusive. The numbers shall be centered horizontally at least eight inches and 10 inches high on front and back, respectively and with bars or strokes approximately 1-1/2 inches wide. The color and style of the number shall be the same on the front and back. The body of the number shall be either a color(s) contrasting with the jersey color or the same solid color(s) as the jersey with a minimum of one border that is at least 1/4 inch in width of a single solid contrasting color.
Players of the opposing teams shall wear jerseys of contrasting colors.
An American flag, not to exceed two by three inches and either a commemorative or memorial patch, not to exceed four square inches and with written league approval, may be worn on the jersey provided neither the flag nor the patch interferes with the visibility of the number.
When an official discovers a player who has any amount of blood the uniform is appropriately cleaned and/or the uniform is changed before returning to competition. Such player shall be considered an apparently injured player.
Every player is required to wear pants that cover the knees and knee pads.

APPROVED RULINGS

AR 12.10.C : After the ball has been marked ready for play, but prior to the snap, it is discovered (a) A1 and A2 are both wearing number 81 or (b) B2 is wearing 00. RULING: In (a), it will become a foul at the snap for illegal numbering. In (b), it is a foul before the snap for illegal numbering and B2 will not be permitted to participate with that number, because 00 is not a legal number. If the illegal numbering is discovered during the down, it is a foul that occurred at the snap.
AR 12.10.D : Team A's players are wearing jerseys (a) just covering the shoulder pads and their midriffs are exposed, (b) that extend below the top of their pants, but some players have them tucked in, while others have them outside their pants or (c) that are waist length but have tucked them up under the bottom of their shoulder pads. RULING: The jerseys in (a) and (c) are not legal. In (b), the jerseys of all players will have to be tucked inside the pants upon discovery.
Pads 
Required pads are hip pads and tailbone protector, unaltered from the manufacturer's original design/production; knee pads, unaltered from the manufacturer's original design/production, that are worn over the knee and under the pants and at least 1/2 inch thick or 3/8 inch thick if made of shock- absorbing material; shoulder pads and hard surface auxiliary attachments, that shall be fully covered by a jersey; and thigh guards, unaltered from the manufacturer's original design/production, that shall have any hard surface covered with material such as closed-cell vinyl foam that has a minimum compression resistance of 4-8 pounds for 25 percent compression or other material with equivalent specifications and is at least 1/4 inch thick on the outside surface and at least 3/8 inch thick on the inside surface and the overlap of the edge. Shinguards, if worn, must meet NOCSAE specifications.
Shoes 
Every player must wear shoes and shall be made of a material that covers the foot (canvas, leather or synthetic) attached to a firm sole of leather, rubber or composition material that may have cleats or that may be cleatless. Among the items that do not meet the requirements are gymnastic slippers, tennis shoes cut so protection is reduced, ski and logger boots and other apparel not intended for football use.
Metal cleats are not legal. Removable cleats shall be constructed of a material that does not chip or develop a cutting edge. Legal material includes leather, nylon, certain plastics and rubber; the use of aluminum or ceramics is not permissible. The base and the tip of the cleat shall be parallel. The free end may be rounded in an arc with a radius of not less than 7/16 inch provided the overall length is not more than 1/2 inch measured from the tip of the cleat to the sole of the shoe. The cleat may be attached to a raised platform that is molded to the shoe. The platform may be no more than 5/32 inch in height and must be wider than the base of the cleat. The widest part of the cleat must be in direct contact with the platform. The 5/32 inch raised platform must be wider than the base of the cleat and must extend across the width of the sole to within 1/4 inch or less of the outer edges of the sole. A single toe cleat does not require a raised platform that extends across the width of the sole. The raised platform of the toe cleat is limited to 5/32 inch or less. The 5/32 inch platform is measured from the lowest point of the platform to the sole of the shoe. Removable cleats must have an effective locking device that prevents the exposure of metal posts shall be incorporated. The cleat wall shall be at least 3/16 inch in diameter. The sides of the removable cleat shall taper uniformly from a minimum base of 3/4 inch in diameter to a minimum tip of 3/8 inch in diameter.
Nonremovable cleats are limited to studs or projections that do not exceed 1/2 inch in length measured from the sole of the shoe to the tip of the cleat and that are made with nonabrasive rubber or rubber-type synthetic material that does not have or develop a cutting edge.
Tooth and Mouth pretectors 
Every player is required to wear a tooth and mouth protector (intraoral) that shall include an occlusal (protecting and separating the biting surfaces) and a labial (protecting the teeth and supporting structures) portion and covers the posterior teeth with adequate thickness. It is recommended the protector be properly fitted and constructed from a model made from an impression of the individual's teeth and constructed and fitted to the individual by impressing the teeth into the tooth and mouth protector itself. The tooth and mouth protector shall be of any readily visible color, other than completely white or completely clear. The tooth and mouth protector need not be attached to the helmet or facemask. A tooth and mouth protector with a breakaway tether is legal.

APPROVED RULINGS

AR 12.10.E : A4 is noticed to (a) have a clear tooth and mouth protector or (b) have a tooth and mouth protector that is only covering the upper, front teeth. RULING: All tooth and mouth protectors shall (a) be a color other than completely clear or white and (b) the tooth and mouth protector must also cover the posterior teeth. The officials should, through normal observations, attempt to verify that each player is legally equipped prior to the ball becoming live and if illegal equipment is detected, that player must fix the problem or leave the game. If the officials are unable to detect the illegal equipment and the player is observed wearing a completely clear or white mouth protector during a down, a foul is to be called.
PENALTY
Failure to properly wear required equipment during a down


27
Unsportsmanlike conduct Noncontact foul


23
Failure to wear required equipment
Failure to properly wear required equipment when the ball is about to become live, dead-ball foul


7
Dead ball foul, touchback (move side to side)


21
Delay of game


