An overtime period is untimed play after a regulation game has ended with the score tied. During an overtime period, each team has an opportunity for an offensive series of downs.
Procedure 
When the score is tied at the end of the fourth period, the referee will instruct both teams to return to their respective team boxes. There will be a three-minute intermission during that both teams may confer with their coaches. All officials will assemble at the 50-yard line, review the overtime procedure and discuss how penalties, if any, including any carry-over penalties from the regulation contest will be assessed to start the overtime procedure.
Coin Toss 
At the coin toss in the center of the field, the visiting team's captain shall choose  heads   or  tails  before the coin is tossed. The winner of the toss shall be given his choice of defense or offense first or of designating the end of the field where the ball will be put in play for this set of downs. The loser will have his choice of the other option. The referee will indicate the winner of the toss by placing a hand on his shoulder. To indicate that team will go on offense, the referee will have that captain face the goal toward that his team will advance and indicate it with the first-down signal. The other team captain will face the offensive captain with his back toward the goal he will defend.
Timeouts 
Each team shall be permitted one timeout during each overtime period (a series for A and a series for B). The team scoring the greater number of points in the overtime shall be declared the winner. The final score shall be determined by totaling all points scored by each team during both regulation time and overtime periods.
Ball in Play 
To start the overtime, the offensive team shall put the ball in play anywhere between the hash marks, first-and-goal, on the defensive team's 10-yard line or succeeding spot if a carry-over penalty has been administered.
Offensive Downs 
The first offensive team shall have a series of four downs. That series shall be terminated by any score by the offensive team or if the defensive team has possession of the ball.
Scoring a Touchdown 
If the team on offense scores a touchdown, it is entitled to the opportunity for a try unless the points would not affect the outcome of the game or playoff qualifying. A field-goal attempt is permitted during any down.
Defense Gains Possession 
If the defensive team gains possession, the ball becomes dead immediately and the offensive team's series of downs is ended.
Offensive Change of Possession 
After the first team on offense has completed its series of downs, the first team on defense will become the offensive team with the ball in its possession at the same 10-yard line anywhere between the hash marks. The same end of the field will be used for possessions by both teams during the two sets of downs to ensure equal game conditions and conserve time.
Double Overtime 
If the score remains tied after each team has been given one series of downs in an overtime period, then the procedure shall be repeated with other overtime periods until a game winner is determined. In that case, there shall be an intermission of two minutes. At the subsequent meeting of team captains, the loser of the overtime coin toss will be given first choice of the options. If additional overtime periods are required, then first options will be alternated with no coin toss.
Safety 
If a safety is scored by the offensive team, the succeeding spot will be the 10-yard line in possession of the team that was on defense. If the defensive team has had its series of downs, the game is over.
New Series of Downs 
The offensive team shall be awarded a new series of downs when a penalty by B that includes an automatic first down is accepted or the offensive team recovers a scrimmage kick (field-goal attempt) between the goal lines after it has been touched first by the defensive team beyond the neutral zone.
Line to Gain 
The line to gain is always the goal line.
APPROVED RULINGS
AR 2.13.A 
On fourth down in overtime play, A scores a touchdown. After the score but before the try, B1 commits an unsportsmanlike foul. RULING: The penalty is enforced from the succeeding spot on the try. Nonplayer fouls, nonplayer unsportsmanlike fouls and dead-ball fouls are penalized from the succeeding spot in overtime.
AR 2.13.B 
During the last timed down of the fourth period A1 advances for a touchdown making the score B-22 and A-20. The kick try is successful. Following the try B1 commits an unsportsmanlike foul. RULING: The penalty for the foul by B1 after the successful try will be administered from the succeeding spot to begin overtime play. In that situation, the referee should explain to the captains at the time of the coin toss the fact the penalty will be administered on the first series of downs in the overtime. The place from which the ball will be put in play for each team could have an effect on the choice made by the winner of the toss.
AR 2.13.C 
A wins the toss and elects to take the ball. A1 scores on the third down. After A1 crosses the goal line (a) A2 clips B1 or (b) B1 strikes A2. RULING: The score counts and the penalties for the deadball fouls in both (a) and (b) are enforced on the try, because that is the succeeding spot. 
AR 2.13.D 
On third-and-4 in overtime play, B recovers a fumble or intercepts a pass. RULING: The down ends as soon as B1 recovers or intercepts. In both cases the series of downs is ended for A.
AR 2.13.E 
On third-and-6 in overtime play Team A attempts a field goal. The attempt is not successful and B recovers on the 1-yard line. RULING: The down ends when B1 recovers. The series is ended for A.
AR 2.13.F 
The fourth quarter ends with a touchdown by A. During the successful kick try, the kicker is roughed. A accepts the result of the play, that ties the score and chooses to have the penalty assessed at the succeeding spot. RULING: Since A can choose succeeding spot enforcement and the try was successful, A will likely take enforcement at the succeeding spot to begin the overtime. Game officials must be certain to explain the options clearly, not only during penalty administration but also during the overtime coin toss.
AR 2.13.G 
In overtime play with third-and-goal from B's 4-yard line, B1 interferes during a forward pass. RULING: If the penalty is accepted, it will be first-and-goal for A on B's 2-yard line.
AR 2.13.H 
At the end of the regulation game the score is tied, 7-7. Immediately after the last down of the fourth period A1 strikes B1. RULING: A1 will be disqualified and may not participate during the overtime period. The penalty for A1's foul will be administered from the succeeding spot. If B is the first to put the ball in play, it will be from the 5-yard line. If A is the first to put the ball in play, it will be from the 25-yard line.
AR 2.13.I 
On first down in overtime, B1 intercepts a pass but then fumbles and A1 recovers. RULING: The ball became dead and A's series ended immediately when B1 intercepted. A1 recovered a dead ball. B will put the ball in play to start its series of four downs, first-and-goal from anywhere between the inbound lines on the 10-yard line.
AR 2.13.J 
During the last timed down of the fourth period, A scores a touchdown to make the score 14-13. During the successful pass for a try, B1 roughs the passer. RULING: If A accepts the score, the penalty is enforced to start the overtime. If A accepts the penalty, the try will be replayed from the 11/2-yard line.
AR 2.13.K 
During an overtime period, it is fourth-and-goal from the 6-yard line. B1 charges into the place kick holder. The kick is (a) unsuccessful or successful. RULING: In (a), it will be first-and-goal for A at the 3-yard line following enforcement of the roughing penalty, that also includes an automatic first down. In (b), A could choose a replay of the down after enforcement, yielding first-and-goal from the 3-yard line or choose to have B penalized from the succeeding spot. In that case, B will start its overtime series from the 25-yard line after the penalty for roughing the holder is enforced.
AR 2.13.L 
Following a scoreless first overtime period, the captain of B chooses to play the second overtime period at the opposite end of the field. RULING: Permissible, as it is one of the options to begin each overtime period.
AR 2.13.M 
In overtime play with fourth-and-goal from B's 24-yard line, B1 interferes during a legal forward pass. RULING: First down and goal for A on the 12-yard line if the penalty is accepted.
AR 2.13.N 
A has utilized one timeout in the second half and B has used three. How many timeouts are available to the teams in overtime? RULING: Each team has only one timeout per period; unused second half timeouts do not carry over to overtime.


