A shift is the action of one or more offensive players who, after a huddle or after taking set positions, move to a new set position before the ensuing snap.
Stationary after Shift 
After a huddle or shift all 11 players of A shall come to an absolute stop and shall remain stationary simultaneously without movement of hands, feet, head or body for at least one second before the snap.
Motion at Snap 
Only one A player may be in motion at the snap and then only if such motion is not toward his opponent's goal line.
Motion Behind Line of Scrimmage 
Other than the player with his hands in position to receive the ball if it is snapped, any other A player in motion shall be at least 5 yards behind his line of scrimmage at the snap if he started from any position not clearly behind the line and did not establish himself as a back by stopping for at least one full second.
PENALTY


20
illegal shift (2 hands) illegal motion (1 hand)
APPROVED RULINGS
AR 4.6.A 
Before the snap (a) A's guards and tackles go from a hands- on-knees position to a three-point stance, (b) quarterback A1 takes a step forward and puts his hands under the center or (c) quarterback A1 is in an upright position as he looks over the defense, but he then bends his knees and puts his hands under center. RULING: Each of the movements in (a), (b) and (c) constitutes a shift. Normal shoulder and head movements by the quarterback are not considered a shift.
AR 4.6.B 
A comes to its line of scrimmage with the quarterback A1 standing behind the snapper. Upon signal, A2 goes in motion and then A1 assumes his final position under the snapper. RULING: When the ball is snapped, it will be an illegal shift because A2 did not reset for one second along with the other A players after A1 shifted. Motion cannot be started legally until all 11 players of A have been set simultaneously for at least one second.
AR 4.6.C 
Backs A1 and A2 simultaneously move to new backfield positions prior to the snap. In less than one second after both are stationary (a) A3 goes in motion and is in motion at the snap or (b) the ball is snapped. RULING: Illegal shift in both (a) and (b). Following a huddle or a shift, all 11 players of A must come to a complete stop and must remain stationary simultaneously for at least one second before the snap or before a player goes in motion.
AR 4.6.D 
After A has been set for more than one second, back A1 goes in motion. While A1 is in motion, back A2 takes one step forward and then resets. A1 is still in motion when the ball is snapped two seconds after A2 reset. RULING: Illegal shift. A2's movement was a shift and the failure of the entire team to set for at least one second after the shift and before the snap is a foul at the snap.
AR 4.6.E 
The quarterback by voice command has signaled his teammates to assume a set position while he is standing upright behind the center. The quarterback steps forward and places his hands under the center to receive the snap (a) at the instant the snap is made, (b) that is made after he is motionless but prior to one second having elapsed, (c) that is made after he is motionless for one second or (d) that is made after he is motionless for one second but while he is stepping backward with one foot as the snap is made. RULING: In (a), it is illegal motion. In (b), it is an illegal shift. In (c), it is legal. In (d), it is legal unless a teammate is also in motion at the snap.


