A live ball is a ball in play. A dead ball is a ball not in play. The ball is dead during the interval between downs. A down is action that starts with a legal snap (beginning a scrimmage down) or when the ball is kicked on a free kick (beginning a free-kick down). A down ends when the ball next becomes dead.

Ball Becomes Live
A ball becomes live when the ball has been legally snapped or free kicked and a down is in progress. After being put in play, the ball remains live until the down ends.

Dead Ball
A live ball becomes a dead ball:

When a runner goes out of bounds, is held so his forward progress is stopped or allows any part of his person other than hand or foot to touch the ground.
Exceptions:

The ball remains live if, at the snap, a place kick holder with his knee(s) on the ground and with a teammate in kicking position catches or recovers the snap while his knee(s) is on the ground or rises and catches or recovers an errant snap and immediately returns his knee(s) to the ground and places the ball for a kick or if he rises to advance, hand, kick or pass. NOTE: The ball becomes dead if the place kick holder muffs the snap or fumbles and recovers after his knees have been off the ground and he then touches the ground with other than hand or foot while in possession of the ball.

When a live ball goes out of bounds.
When any forward pass (legal or illegal) is incomplete or is simultaneously caught by opposing players.
When any legal free kick or scrimmage kick that is not a scoring attempt or is a grounded scoring attempt breaks the plane of R's goal line; when a scoring attempt while in flight touches a K player in R's end zone or when a scoring attempt after breaking the plane of R's goal line has apparently failed. 

EXCEPTION: If a scoring attempt kick touches an upright, crossbar, an official or R player in the end zone and caroms through the goal, the touching is ignored and the attempt is successful.

When any loose ball is simultaneously caught or recovered by opposing players, is on the ground motionless and no player attempts to secure possession or touches or is touched by, anything inbounds other than a player, substitute, replaced player, an official, the ground or authorized equipment. In that case, the ball will be put in play in accordance with the procedure for an inadvertent whistle.
When the kicking team catches or recovers any free kick anywhere and when the kicking team catches or recovers a scrimmage kick beyond the neutral zone and when the kicking team is first (i.e., before any touching by the receivers) to touch a scrimmage kick after it has come to rest beyond the neutral zone and between the goal lines.
Following a valid or invalid fair-catch signal given by any member of the receiving team when a scrimmage kick or free kick is caught or recovered by any member of the receiving team beyond, in or behind the neutral zone.
When any score occurs.
During a try if B secures possession or as soon as it is apparent that a kick has failed to score.
When the helmet comes completely off a player who is in possession of the ball.
When a runner simulates taking a knee or simulates "spiking" a forward pass.
When an official sounds his whistle inadvertently. Inadvertent whistles are administered as follows:
The down shall be replayed if, during a down or during a down in which the penalty for a foul is declined, an inadvertent whistle is sounded while a legal forward pass or snap is in flight or during a legal kick.
The team last in possession may choose to either put the ball in play where possession was lost or replay the down if, during a down or during a down in which the penalty for a foul is declined, an inadvertent whistle is sounded while the ball is loose following a backward pass, fumble, illegal forward pass or illegal kick.
The team in possession may choose to either accept the results of the play at the dead-ball spot or replay the down if, during a down or during a down in which the penalty for a foul is declined, an inadvertent whistle is sounded while the ball is in player possession.
The penalty shall be administered as determined by the basic spot and takes precedence over inadvertent whistle administration if, during a down, a live-ball foul occurs prior to the inadvertent whistle and the penalty is accepted.
Catch
A catch is the act of establishing player possession of a live ball that is in flight and first contacting the ground inbounds or being contacted by an opponent in such a way that he is prevented from returning to the ground inbounds while maintaining possession of the ball. A simultaneous catch is a catch in which there is joint possession of a live ball by opposing players who are inbounds. An airborne player with control of the ball is required first to have at least one foot or body part down inbounds.

Fumble
A fumble is any loss of player possession other than by handing, passing or legal kicking. An illegal kick is treated as a fumble.

Interception
An interception is the catch of an opponent's fumble or pass.

Kick
A kick is the intentional striking of the ball with the knee, lower leg or foot. A kick ends when a player gains possession or when the ball becomes dead while not in player possession. Accidental striking of the ball with the knee, lower leg or foot is not a kick.

Muff
A muff is the touching of a loose ball by a player in an unsuccessful attempt to secure possession.

Recovery
A recovery is gaining possession of a live ball after it strikes the ground. An airborne player has completed a recovery when he first contacts the ground inbounds with the ball in his possession. A simultaneous recovery is a recovery in which there is joint possession of a live ball by opposing inbounds players.

Loose Ball
A loose ball is a pass, fumble or a kick. A loose ball that has not yet touched the ground is in flight. A grounded loose ball is one that has touched the ground. Any loose ball continues to be a loose ball until a player secures possession of it or until it becomes dead by rule, whatever comes first. A loose-ball play is action during a free kick or scrimmage kick other than post-scrimmage kick fouls, a legal forward pass, a backward pass (including the snap), an illegal kick or fumble made by A from in or behind the neutral zone prior to a change of team possession, the run or runs that precedes such legal or illegal kick, legal forward pass, backward pass or fumble. Any other action is a running play.

Ball in Player Possession
A ball in player possession is a live ball held or controlled by a player after it has been handed or snapped to him or after he has caught or recovered it.

Ball in Team Possession
A ball in team possession is a live ball that is in player possession or one that is loose following loss of such player possession. A live ball is always in possession of a team. A change of possession occurs when the opponent gains player possession during the down. Ready for play signifies the referee has signaled the ball may be put in play by a snap or free kick and the 25-second count has begun.

Out of Bounds
A ball in player possession is out of bounds when the runner or the ball touches anything, other than another player or game official, that is on or outside a sideline or end line. A loose ball is out of bounds when it touches anything, including a player or game official that is out of bounds.
