A touchdown is six points.
Scoring a Touchdown 
It is a touchdown when a runner advances from the field of play so that the ball penetrates the vertical plane of the opponent's goal line; a loose ball is caughtor recovered by a player while the ball is on or behind his opponent's goal line; or when a backward pass or fumble is declared dead in the end zone of the opponent of the player who threw the backward pass or fumbled while no player is in possession (other than because of an inadvertent whistle).
APPROVED RULINGS
AR 8.1.A 
Runner A1 is advancing toward B's goal line and is very near the sideline. A1 (a) advances into B's end zone while holding the ball outside the sideline plane so the ball breaks the plane of B's goal line extended or (b) dives short of the goal line and is airborne when the holds the ball so that it crosses the plane of B's goal line outside the sideline plane. RULING: In (a), it is a touchdown because A1 was touching inbounds when the ball broke the plane of the goal line extended. In (b), it cannot be a touchdown because A1 was not touching the ground inbounds. The covering official will have to determine the location of the ball when it crossed the sideline. That will be the spot of forward progress.
AR 8.1.B 
A8, in B's end zone, leaps in the air to catch a pass and is contacted by B2. A8 comes down inbounds on B's 1-yard line, where he is downed. RULING: Touchdown, since A8's forward progress was stopped over B's end zone by B2's contact. Even though the catch was not made until A8 came down inbounds, his forward progress was stopped by B2's contact, resulting in A possessing the live ball in its opponent's end zone.
AR 8.1.C 
Airborne A1 and B1 simultaneously gain possession of a legal forward pass near the goal line and return to the ground so that (a) they alight in the end zone with the ball, (b) A1 lands in the end zone and B1 in the field of play inbounds or (c) B1 comes down in the end zone and A1 lands in the field of play. RULING: It is a touchdown in (a). In (b) and (c), the ball becomes dead and the pass is complete at the yard line through the foremost point of the ball when the players contacted the ground inbounds. If the ball has penetrated the plane of the goal line in either (b) or (c), it is a touchdown.


