Each team is entitled to three charged timeouts each half. Unused first-half timeouts cannot be used in the second half. Unused second-half timeouts cannot be used in overtime.
Charged Team Timeout 
A charged team timeout occurs when the ball is dead and the request of either a player, the head coach or the head coach's designee is legally granted; the repair of faulty player equipment requires the assistance of a team attendant or attendants or that, without the assistance of a team attendant delays the ready for play signal for more than 25 seconds or a timeout is requested and granted for the purpose of reviewing an official's application of a rule that may have been misapplied or misinterpreted. The timeout remains charged to the requesting team if no change in the ruling results. The head coach's designee shall remain in place for the entire game except in case of emergency.
Timeout Length 
A single charged timeout shall not exceed one minute. The referee shall notify the teams within five seconds after the timeout expires and shall declare the ball ready for play. Charged timeouts shall be reduced in length only if both teams are ready to play prior to the 25-second ready for play signal by the referee. Successive charged timeouts may be granted during the same dead-ball period.
No Timeouts Remaining 
After a team has used its permissible charged timeouts for the half, any subsequent request shall be denied unless it is for an apparently injured player who is so designated when the request is made, necessary repair to player equipment, or the review of a possible misapplication or misinterpretation of a rule. If repair of equipment without the assistance of a team attendant delays the ready for play signal for more than 25 seconds or requires the assistance of a team attendant(s) and the player's team has used all permissible timeouts, the player shall be replaced for at least one down.
Timeout Type 
During a timeout, teams may choose between one or more team members and one or more coaches directly in front of the team box within nine yards of the sideline or one coach on the field to confer with no more than 11 players at his team's huddle between the inbounds marks. A team may only use one or the other type during any one timeout.
Attendants During Timeout 
If during a timeout one or more team members and one or more coaches meet directly in front of the team box within nine yards of the sideline, three attendants, none of whom is a coach, may enter the field to attend their team. Three attendants, none of whom is a coach, may enter the field to attend their team during the one-minute intermission following a try, a successful field goal or safety, prior to the succeeding free kick, between periods and during an official's timeout for unusual heat and humidity.
Non-Charged Timeouts 
Neither team is charged for a timeout when there is a break for unusual heat or humidity that may create a health risk to players; the one-minute intermission between the first and second and the third and fourth periods; and during the one-minute intermission following a try, successful field goal or safety and prior to the succeeding free kick.
APPROVED RULINGS
AR 2.11.A 
Team A's captain requests a timeout prior to (a) making a penalty decision, (b) deciding whether A will snap or free kick following a fair catch or (c) designating where the ball is to be spotted on the 3-yard line for a try. RULING: Not allowed in (a), but permissible in (b) and (c).
AR 2.11.B 
During a charged timeout, the intermission between the first and second or the third and fourth periods or following a try, team members of A confer with their head coach in front of the team box near the sideline. RULING: Legal.
AR 2.11.C 
During the course of the game, quarterback A1 runs to the vicinity of his team box area for the purpose of receiving instructions from his coach. No timeout is requested, there is no delay in declaring the ball ready for play and the coach does not leave the team-box or coaches area. RULING: Legal.
AR 2.11.D 
A's head coach has designated an assistant coach to request timeouts. In the second quarter, (a) the head coach requests a timeout, (b) the designee is ejected or (c) the head coach changes his mind and wants to request timeouts himself. RULING: In (a), the request is not granted. Only the designee is allowed to request timeouts. In (b), the head coach may now designate someone else to request timeouts. In (c), the request is denied. A designee remains in place except in case of emergency or ejection of the designee.
AR 2.11.E 
During a charged timeout the coach of A confers with A1 near the sideline and in front of his team box. The discussion continues for 30 seconds. A1 then returns to the huddle and A2 comes to the sideline to confer with the coach for the remainder of the charged timeout. RULING: Legal.


